Title: Illegal alien from China passes away at Regional Medical Center near San Diego
Published: 2025-10-03 00:00:00

SAN DIEGO — Huabing Xie, an illegal alien from the People’s Republic of China, died at El Centro Regional Medical Center Sept. 29.

Xie was pronounced dead at 3:15 p.m. after being transported to the hospital from the Imperial Regional Detention Facility in Calexico.

Facility staff reported that Xie experienced what appeared to be a seizure and became unresponsive at about 2:13 p.m. Medical personnel at the detention center administered CPR and used an automated external defibrillator before emergency medical services arrived. First responders continued life-saving efforts while transporting Xie to the hospital, where he was pronounced dead.

U.S. Border Patrol agents arrested Xie near Tecate, California, Dec. 31, 2023, and was served a notice to appear before the Department of Justice’s Executive Office for Immigration Review and placed into removal proceedings. He was released on an order of recognizance the same day.

The border patrol arrested Xie again on Sept. 12 in Indio, California, and transferred him to ICE custody the following day.

ICE notified the Department of Homeland Security’s Office of Inspector General, ICE’s Office of Professional Responsibility and the Chinese consulate about Xie’s death, as required by agency policy.

ICE makes official notifications to Congress, nongovernmental organization stakeholders, and the media upon an official report of a detained illegal alien’s death, and per agency policy, posts a news release with relevant details on the ICE public website within two business days. This information may be accessed in the ICE.gov Newsroom. Additionally, congressional requirements described in the DHS Appropriations Bill of 2018 require ICE to make public all reports regarding an in-custody death within 90 days. These reports may be accessed on the Detainee Death Reporting page.

ICE remains committed to ensuring that all those in its custody reside in safe, secure and humane environments. Comprehensive medical care is provided from the moment individuals arrive and throughout the entirety of their stay. All people in ICE custody receive medical, dental and mental health intake screening within 12 hours of arriving at each detention facility; a full health assessment within 14 days of entering ICE custody or arrival at a facility; access to medical appointments, and 24-hour emergency care. At no time during ICE detention is an alien denied emergent care.

Reports of in-custody deaths are posted on the ICE website within two business days, and additional details are made public within 90 days.