Another immigrant dies in ICE custody in California, this time in the Imperial Valley | KPBS Public Media Search Query Show Search News Local National International Noticias en español Investigations North County South Bay All News Sections Local National International Noticias en español Investigations North County South Bay All News Sections Featured Projects Data Visualization Projects Game-Time Decision Best of 2025 KPBS Families One of Their Own One Small Step Public Matters Data Visualization Projects Game-Time Decision Best of 2025 KPBS Families One of Their Own One Small Step Public Matters Arts &amp; Culture Arts &amp; Culture Stories Arts Calendar Black Arts &amp; Culture Holiday Gift Guide One Book, One San Diego Weekend Arts Preview Soccer a la Frontera Cinema Junkie The Finest Podcast Freeway Exit Podcast The Parker Edison Project Podcast Port of Entry Podcast Everybody&#x27;s Doing It With Miss Lolly Podcast Voices del Valle Podcast Arts &amp; Culture Stories Arts Calendar Black Arts &amp; Culture Holiday Gift Guide One Book, One San Diego Weekend Arts Preview Soccer a la Frontera Cinema Junkie The Finest Podcast Freeway Exit Podcast The Parker Edison Project Podcast Port of Entry Podcast Everybody&#x27;s Doing It With Miss Lolly Podcast Voices del Valle Podcast TV &amp; Radio Watch Live Stream KPBS+ Watch KPBS On-Demand KPBS Evening Edition KPBS Midday Edition KPBS News: This Week KPBS Roundtable Kids TV Podcasts Radio Reading Service Radio Shows Radio 89.5 Schedule TV Highlights TV Schedules TV Shows Classical San Diego Schedule Watch Live Stream KPBS+ Watch KPBS On-Demand KPBS Evening Edition KPBS Midday Edition KPBS News: This Week KPBS Roundtable Kids TV Podcasts Radio Reading Service Radio Shows Radio 89.5 Schedule TV Highlights TV Schedules TV Shows Classical San Diego Schedule Podcasts One of Their Own Voices del Valle ScreenTime The Finest Rap Diego Free Jane Stripper Energy San Diego News Now KPBS Midday Edition Freeway Exit KPBS Roundtable Cinema Junkie KPBS Investigates Port of Entry The Parker Edison Project Everybody&#x27;s Doing It With Miss Lolly San Diego Conversations The KPBS Summer Music Series Rad Scientist My First Day Device One of Their Own Voices del Valle ScreenTime The Finest Rap Diego Free Jane Stripper Energy San Diego News Now KPBS Midday Edition Freeway Exit KPBS Roundtable Cinema Junkie KPBS Investigates Port of Entry The Parker Edison Project Everybody&#x27;s Doing It With Miss Lolly San Diego Conversations The KPBS Summer Music Series Rad Scientist My First Day Device Support KPBS Federal Funding Update Membership Information KPBS Passport Producers Club Major Giving The Gratitude Collective Vehicle Donation Giving Property Corporate Support Other Ways to Give Federal Funding Update Membership Information KPBS Passport Producers Club Major Giving The Gratitude Collective Vehicle Donation Giving Property Corporate Support Other Ways to Give Events Events Calendar Valentine&#x27;s Day Submit an Event KPBS Rentals Events Calendar Valentine&#x27;s Day Submit an Event KPBS Rentals Help Menu Show Search Search Query Give Now Play Live Radio Next Up: 0:00 0:00 Available On Air Stations On Air Now Playing KPBS Radio Full Schedule On Air Now Playing Classical San Diego Watch Live All Streams News Local National International Noticias en español Investigations North County South Bay All News Sections Local National International Noticias en español Investigations North County South Bay All News Sections Featured Projects Data Visualization Projects Game-Time Decision Best of 2025 KPBS Families One of Their Own One Small Step Public Matters Data Visualization Projects Game-Time Decision Best of 2025 KPBS Families One of Their Own One Small Step Public Matters Arts &amp; Culture Arts &amp; Culture Stories Arts Calendar Black Arts &amp; Culture Holiday Gift Guide One Book, One San Diego Weekend Arts Preview Soccer a la Frontera Cinema Junkie The Finest Podcast Freeway Exit Podcast The Parker Edison Project Podcast Port of Entry Podcast Everybody&#x27;s Doing It With Miss Lolly Podcast Voices del Valle Podcast Arts &amp; Culture Stories Arts Calendar Black Arts &amp; Culture Holiday Gift Guide One Book, One San Diego Weekend Arts Preview Soccer a la Frontera Cinema Junkie The Finest Podcast Freeway Exit Podcast The Parker Edison Project Podcast Port of Entry Podcast Everybody&#x27;s Doing It With Miss Lolly Podcast Voices del Valle Podcast TV &amp; Radio Watch Live Stream KPBS+ Watch KPBS On-Demand KPBS Evening Edition KPBS Midday Edition KPBS News: This Week KPBS Roundtable Kids TV Podcasts Radio Reading Service Radio Shows Radio 89.5 Schedule TV Highlights TV Schedules TV Shows Classical San Diego Schedule Watch Live Stream KPBS+ Watch KPBS On-Demand KPBS Evening Edition KPBS Midday Edition KPBS News: This Week KPBS Roundtable Kids TV Podcasts Radio Reading Service Radio Shows Radio 89.5 Schedule TV Highlights TV Schedules TV Shows Classical San Diego Schedule Podcasts One of Their Own Voices del Valle ScreenTime The Finest Rap Diego Free Jane Stripper Energy San Diego News Now KPBS Midday Edition Freeway Exit KPBS Roundtable Cinema Junkie KPBS Investigates Port of Entry The Parker Edison Project Everybody&#x27;s Doing It With Miss Lolly San Diego Conversations The KPBS Summer Music Series Rad Scientist My First Day Device One of Their Own Voices del Valle ScreenTime The Finest Rap Diego Free Jane Stripper Energy San Diego News Now KPBS Midday Edition Freeway Exit KPBS Roundtable Cinema Junkie KPBS Investigates Port of Entry The Parker Edison Project Everybody&#x27;s Doing It With Miss Lolly San Diego Conversations The KPBS Summer Music Series Rad Scientist My First Day Device Support KPBS Federal Funding Update Membership Information KPBS Passport Producers Club Major Giving The Gratitude Collective Vehicle Donation Giving Property Corporate Support Other Ways to Give Federal Funding Update Membership Information KPBS Passport Producers Club Major Giving The Gratitude Collective Vehicle Donation Giving Property Corporate Support Other Ways to Give Events Events Calendar Valentine&#x27;s Day Submit an Event KPBS Rentals Events Calendar Valentine&#x27;s Day Submit an Event KPBS Rentals Help Border &amp; Immigration Another immigrant dies in ICE custody in California, this time in the Imperial Valley By Kori Suzuki / South Bay and Imperial Valley Reporter Published&nbsp;October 6, 2025 at 6:18 PM PDT Facebook WhatsApp Email Listen &bull; 1:12 Another immigrant has died in the custody of federal immigration authorities — this time in Imperial County. As Kori Suzuki reports, it was the second in-custody death in California in two weeks. Leer en español Another immigrant died in the custody of federal immigration authorities in California, raising new questions about the care of detainees amid the Trump administration’s historic mass deportation campaign. In an announcement , U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) said Huabing Xie, an immigrant from China, had a seizure Friday at the Imperial Regional Detention Facility in Calexico and died that afternoon. Advertisement Become a KPBS sponsor Xie had been detained at the Calexico detention center since last month. ICE alleged that Xie was in the U.S. without legal status and said federal agents arrested him on Sept. 12 in Indio. Staffers at the center gave Xie CPR and used a defibrillator , a medical device typically used to shock a patient’s heart, according to ICE. But Xie was later pronounced dead at El Centro Regional Medical Center. Imperial County immigrants’ rights advocates said they were saddened and angered by the news. Imperial Liberation Collaborative organizer Marina Arteaga said Xie’s death fit into a pattern marked by dwindling oversight and increasingly harsh conditions at federal detention centers across the country. “This is not an isolated incident,” Arteaga told KPBS on Monday. Arteaga and other immigrants’ rights advocates are demanding that ICE release more details and calling on state and county authorities to investigate Xie’s death. Advertisement Become a KPBS sponsor On Monday, ICE said an investigation was underway but declined to answer further questions. More immigrants are dying in federal detention Xie’s case was the second reported death of an immigrant in ICE custody in California in two weeks. On Sept. 21, 39-year-old Ismael Ayala-Uribe died inside ICE’s detention center in the High Desert city of Adelanto after developing a cough and fever. ICE has also said they are investigating Ayala-Uribe’s death. The incidents come amid what several Democratic senators have called the deadliest six-month period for immigrants in federal detention nationwide since 2018. ICE has publicly reported that at least 14 people have died in its custody since January. In a letter earlier this year, Georgia Sens. Jon Ossoff and Raphael Warnock said the agency had also failed to acknowledge a fifteenth death at a county jail in New York State. (ICE has since publicly confirmed that death but has yet to list it on the agency’s official detainee death tracking page as of Monday.) Ayala-Uribe and Xie bring the total to 17. That string of in-custody deaths comes as ICE races to expand its massive detention network. Flush with $45 billion in new funding from Congress , the agency is building new tent camps and expanding its use of military bases in a mad rush to fulfill President Donald Trump’s vow of mass deportations. In Imperial County, Arteaga said that rush has also come with a crackdown on transparency. Arteaga and the Collaborative have been visiting the Imperial County detention center since 2022 to spend time with detainees and document their experiences. They were completely shut out as of this August, she said. “We have not been able to go inside the facility,” Arteaga said. “We don't know what's going on.” What we know about Xie’s death Beyond what ICE has already described, the circumstances of Xie’s death are unclear. A spokesperson for El Centro Regional Medical Center reached by phone Friday also declined to comment. One important question, Imperial Valley Equity and Justice Coalition executive director Daniela Flores said, is whether immigration agents used force against Xie during his arrest or detention. Another question, she said, is whether Xie had any existing medical conditions that could lead to seizures — and whether he reported any symptoms to staff at the detention center. “That is putting myself into his family's shoes,” Flores said. “Knowing that they probably want answers.” Earlier this year, the California Attorney General’s office found that the Imperial County detention center was struggling to hire a medical director, leading to “delays in addressing clinical errors by lower-level health staff.” Flores is asking state Attorney General Rob Bonta and the Imperial County public health officials to investigate. In its statement Friday, ICE said U.S. Border Patrol agents first arrested Xie in 2023 near the eastern San Diego County town of Tecate. The agency said Xie was placed in removal proceedings and released. KPBS could not locate any criminal records for Xie. Local officials face calls for accountability To Flores and Arteaga, Xie’s death highlights a lack of oversight of the Imperial Regional Detention Facility by elected officials. The detention center is run by Management and Training Corporation (MTC), a private, for-profit company based in Centerville, Utah. The facility holds up to 782 detainees. In 2022, ICE reported that it spent more than $44 million on the facility every year. The detention center has faced allegations of abuse in the past. In 2021, Carlos Murillo Vega, who grew up in Imperial County, sued MTC for holding him in solitary confinement for over a year. In 2022, nine detainees said in a civil rights complaint that their cells were moldy and the water tasted like bleach. California has given county officials the power to inspect ICE detention centers in their jurisdiction. But Imperial County and most others have not used that power, Calmatters reported earlier this month . In an email to KPBS, Calexico Mayor Diana Noricumbo said the detention center is located in an unincorporated part of the city, outside their jurisdiction. KPBS also reached out to Imperial County’s five supervisors and a county spokesperson. None responded to questions by publication time. Tags Border &amp; Immigration Imperial County Immigration Kori Suzuki instagram email Kori Suzuki covers South San Diego County and the Imperial Valley for KPBS. He reports on the decisions of local government officials with a particular focus on environmental issues, housing affordability, and race and identity. He is especially drawn to stories that show how we are all complicated and multidimensional. See stories by Kori Suzuki Trending 🐴 Wieghorst Museum 🩺 Kaiser Permanente strike 🚲 Oceanside e-bike seizure Sign up for our newsletters! Keep up with all the latest news, arts and culture, and TV highlights from KPBS. Email address * Today's Top Stories TV Highlights The Catch Up KPBS/Arts KPBS' Most Popular KPBS Streaming Picks North County Focus Subscribe LATEST IN PODCASTS Kaiser Permanente health care workers go on strike LATEST IN EVENTS Firefighters for Hope – Cancer Walk LATEST IN TV HIGHLIGHTS FINDING YOUR ROOTS: The Road We Took Most Popular After second Minneapolis killing, San Diego elected officials say ‘Rubicon crossed’ and ICE is ‘executing American citizens’ This El Cajon museum takes visitors back to the frontier days of the Old West Thousands of Kaiser Permanente nurses go on strike County flags to be lowered in recognition of ICE-related deaths in Minnesota Jacumba residents say solar project is kicking up too much dust Fact-based local news is essential KPBS keeps you informed with local stories you need to know about — with no paywall. Our news is free for everyone because people like you help fund it. Without federal funding, community support is our lifeline. Make a gift to protect the future of KPBS. Donate Border Brief We're breaking down the complexities of immigration in the Trump era — from the mass deportation campaign to cross-border economics. In each episode hear from experts and dive into the data. Watch now → KPBS News: Public Safety Policy KPBS has created a public safety coverage policy to guide decisions on what stories we prioritize, as well as whose narratives we need to include to tell complete stories that best serve our audiences. This policy was shaped through months of training with the Poynter Institute and feedback from the community. You can read the full policy here. Read → More News Border &amp; Immigration After second Minneapolis killing, San Diego elected officials say ‘Rubicon crossed’ and ICE is ‘executing American citizens’ Education Affordable housing for staff on San Diego school board agenda Environment Air Pollution Control District distributes 10,000 air purifiers in South Bay Quality of Life San Diego County open for Valentine&#x27;s Day weddings instagram tiktok youtube facebook About About Us &amp; Mission Newsletters Careers FCC &amp; Financial Mobile Apps Press Releases Privacy Policy Staff Terms of Service Help Audience and Member Services Closed Captioning Contact Us FAQs How do I listen? Passport Help Help Center Give Corporate Support Donate Membership Information Other Ways to Give Tax ID Vehicle Donation