California farmworker dies after falling from greenhouse roof during chaotic ICE raid | CNN Ad Feedback CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I&#x27;ve seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much appreciated. Close Close icon US Crime + Justice More Crime + Justice Watch Listen Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Listen Watch Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español Crime + Justice Follow CNN US Crime + Justice World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Politics Trump Facts First CNN Polls 2026 Elections Calendar Redistricting Tracker Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear &amp; Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships CNN Underscored Electronics Fashion Beauty Health &amp; Fitness Home Reviews Deals Gifts Travel Outdoors Pets Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food &amp; Drink Stay Videos Sports Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Winter Olympics 2026 Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Watch Featured Shows &amp; Films Network TV Clips CNN Headlines CNN Shorts Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Photo Shuffle Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Subscribe Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN US 3 min read California farmworker dies after falling from greenhouse roof during chaotic ICE raid By Associated Press Updated Jul 13, 2025, 6:15 PM ET Published Jul 13, 2025, 3:28 AM ET Updated Jul 13, 2025, 6:15 PM ET PUBLISHED Jul 13, 2025, 3:28 AM ET Jaime Alanis is seen in this undated photo provided by his family. Family Photo/AP Federal agencies See all topics Facebook Tweet Email Link Link Copied! Follow AP &nbsp;&mdash;&nbsp; A farmworker who fell from a greenhouse roof during a chaotic ICE raid this week at a California cannabis facility died Saturday of his injuries. Jaime Alanis, 57, is the first known person to die during one of the Trump administration’s ongoing immigration enforcement operations. Yesenia Duran, Alanis’ niece, confirmed his death to The Associated Press. Duran posted on the fundraising site GoFundMe that her uncle was his family’s only provider and he had been sending his earnings back to a wife and daughter in Mexico. Alanis worked at the farm for 10 years, his family said. The United Farm Workers reported Alanis’ death prematurely late Friday. The Ventura County Medical Center later issued a statement authorized by the family saying he was still on life support. “These violent and cruel federal actions terrorize American communities, disrupt the American food supply chain, threaten lives and separate families,” the UFW said recently in a statement on the social platform X. The union does not represent workers at the raided farm. Related article Federal agents stage at MacArthur Park on July 7 in in Los Angeles. Damian Dovarganes/AP Tensions are rising in Southern California over immigration raids. Here’s what we know The Department of Homeland Security said it executed criminal search warrants Thursday at Glass House Farms facilities in Camarillo and Carpinteria. Glass House is a licensed cannabis grower. The farm in Camarillo also grows tomatoes and cucumbers. Alanis called family to say he was hiding and possibly was fleeing agents before he fell about 30 feet from the roof and broke his neck, according to information from family, hospital and government sources. Agents arrested some 200 people suspected of being in the country illegally and identified at least 10 immigrant children on the sites, DHS said in a statement. Alanis was not among them, the agency said. “This man was not in and has not been in CBP or ICE custody,” DHS Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs Tricia McLaughlin said in a statement. “Although he was not being pursued by law enforcement, this individual climbed up to the roof of a greenhouse and fell 30 feet. CBP immediately called a medivac to the scene to get him care as quickly as possible.” California National Guard troops face off with protestors during a raid on Glass House Farms in Camarillo, California, on Thursday. Blake Fagan/AFP/Getty Images Four US citizens were arrested during the incident for allegedly “assaulting or resisting officers,” according to DHS, and authorities were offering a $50,000 reward for information leading to the arrest of a person suspected of firing a gun at federal agents. During the raid crowds of people gathered outside the facility in Camarillo to seek information about their relatives and protest immigration enforcement. Authorities clad in military-style helmets and uniforms faced off with the demonstrators, and people ultimately retreated amid acrid green and white billowing smoke. Glass House said in a statement that immigration agents had valid warrants. The company said workers were detained and it is helping provide them with legal representation. “Glass House has never knowingly violated applicable hiring practices and does not and has never employed minors,” it said. The business was co-founded by Graham Farrar and Kyle Kazan. Farrar has donated to California Democrats including Gov. Gavin Newsom, a vocal critic of Republican President Donald Trump, according to campaign finance records. Kazan has donated to both Democrats and Republicans. Federal agencies See all topics Facebook Tweet Email Link Link Copied! Follow Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Listen Watch US Crime + Justice World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Politics Trump Facts First CNN Polls 2026 Elections Calendar Redistricting Tracker Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear &amp; Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships CNN Underscored Electronics Fashion Beauty Health &amp; Fitness Home Reviews Deals Gifts Travel Outdoors Pets Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food &amp; Drink Stay News Videos Sports Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Winter Olympics 2026 Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Watch Featured Shows &amp; Films Network TV Clips CNN Headlines CNN Shorts Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Photo Shuffle Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Subscribe Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN US Watch Listen Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Follow CNN Download the CNN app Download the CNN app Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility &amp; CC About Subscribe Newsletters Transcripts Help Center &copy; 2026 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network. Download the CNN app Scan the QR code to download the CNN app on Google Play. Download the CNN app Scan the QR code to download the CNN app from the Apple Store.