ICE agent seen on viral video shoving woman had no "compassion," victim says - CBS New York
All News
NY News
Bronx News
Brooklyn News
Harlem News
Long Island News
Northern Suburbs
Queens News
NJ News
CT News
Investigations
Politics
Education
Transportation
Crime
Housing
Arts & Entertainment
Climate & Environment
Health & Wellness
Aging & Caregiving
First Alert Weather
Radars & Maps
CBS2 Weather Map
CBS2 Weather Watchers
First Alert Weather 101
Share Photos & Videos
All Sports
Giants
Yankees
Knicks
Rangers
Islanders
Jets
Mets
Nets
Devils
CBS Sports HQ
Odds
Latest News
CBS New York Investigates
Book Club with Mary Calvi
Class Act with Chris Wragge
#BetterTogether
Breaking The Stigma
Furry Friend Finder
Sandy
The 5:33 | Legacy of the LIRR Massacre
On The Dot with David Schechter: Wildfires & Climate Change
Climate Change: Protecting our Planet
Station Info
WCBS-TV
WLNY-TV
Contact Us
Advertise
Contests & Promotions
Galleries
Links & Numbers
Download Our App
Memorials
Watch CBS News
The mother who
was shoved to the ground by a U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agent at the federal courthouse in Lower Manhattan
broke her silence on Sunday.
The video of Thursday's altercation went viral, but the woman told CBS News New York that was not the first interaction her family had with the agent.
Read more
:
Demonstrations held across NYC for Stand Against ICE Day of Action
"I was left in shock"
It was a moment Monica Elizabeth Moreta-Galarza said she never thought would unfold at a federal courthouse in the United States.
"I was left in shock," she said in Spanish.
She said the agent seen on the video shoving her to the ground at 26 Federal Plaza pulled her hair and yelled at her and her two children in a separate room before what transpired on the footage unfolded.
"He pushed me inside and he told me to calm down, to shut up, shut up and because my kids were crying, he told them to shut up and he closed the door," Moreta-Galarza said.
Read more
:
Deadly shooting at Dallas ICE facility investigated by FBI as targeted attack; medical examiner identifies victim
"I didn't do anything to him"
On the video, Moreta-Galarza is heard pleading with the officer after being separated from her husband of 17 years following their immigration court hearing.
"I didn't do anything to him. I just begged him, and any human would have some compassion, but he didn't have that," she said.
Moreta-Galarza said the judge granted her family a court hearing for next year. They are all seeking asylum from Ecuador. She said she was stunned when agents took him into custody.
ICE agent in question fired
The Department of Homeland Security said
the agent has been relieved of his duties as it investigates the incident
. DHS spokeswoman Tricia McLaughlin also released a statement calling the ICE officer's behavior "unacceptable and beneath the men and women of ICE."
Lina Stillman, the family's attorney, said the incident sends a message to migrants.
"That the same thing will happen to them, that violence will be used against them," Stillman said.
Moreta-Galarza fought back tears as she reflected on the moment. She said her children and the word of God are keeping her going.
"Please have compassion for us"
She also had a message for President Trump.
"I am asking the president directly that he please have compassion for us," Moreta-Galarza said.
CBS News New York reached out to DHS several times Sunday, but did not immediately hear back.
The family attorney said her mission right now is reuniting the family.
More from CBS News
ICE arrests 8 "illegal aliens" in Hibbing restaurant drug bust
Advocates allege "inhumane" conditions at Broadview ICE facility
Ossoff investigation details alleged neglect at ICE detention centers
Chicago neighborhoods create safe Halloween spaces amid ICE concerns
ICE says father who was detained in Durango was "mistaken" for someone else
In:
Immigration
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
Manhattan
United States Department of Homeland Security
Deportation
Featured Local Savings
Mother shoved to the ground by ICE agent at Manhattan federal courthouse speaks out
Mother shoved to the ground by ICE agent at Manhattan federal courthouse speaks out
02:12
Mother shoved to the ground by ICE agent at Manhattan federal courthouse speaks out
(02:12)
ICE arrests 8 "illegal aliens" in Hibbing restaurant drug bust
Advocates allege "inhumane" conditions at Broadview ICE facility
Ossoff investigation details alleged neglect at ICE detention centers
Chicago neighborhoods create safe Halloween spaces amid ICE concerns
ICE says father who was detained in Durango was "mistaken" for someone else
DHS agents allegedly wear Halloween masks during Los Angeles patrol
NYC storm victim complained about flood-prone basement, tenants say
Thieves caught on video stealing rifles from Holliston store
View CBS News In
CBS News App
Open
Chrome
Safari
Continue