I Filmed the ICE Officer Who Shoved a Woman — ProPublica Arrow Right Caret Close Skip to content Menu Menu ProPublica Donate ProPublica Investigative Journalism in the Public Interest Menu Menu Search Search Donate Nonprofit Explorer Local Initiatives Newsletters About Us Mail Email Address: Arrow Right Sign Up Menu Menu ProPublica Donate Close Close ProPublica Donate Search ProPublica: Search Search Topics Racial Justice Racial Justice Healthcare Health Care Politics Politics Criminal Justice Criminal Justice more… Browse by Place Midwest Northwest South Southwest Texas Type Graphics &amp; Data Newsletters Series Videos Local Reporting Network Electionland Info About Us Impact Jobs &amp; Fellowships Contact Us Follow ProPublica Bluesky Bluesky Instagram Instagram Facebook Facebook X (Twitter) YouTube YouTube Threads Threads LinkedIn LinkedIn RSS RSS A federal agent pushes Monica Moreta-Galarza to the ground inside a federal courthouse in lower Manhattan on Thursday. Graham Macindoe Immigration I Filmed the ICE Officer Who Shoved a Woman to the Floor Inside a New York Courthouse I arrived in the U.S. eight weeks ago to report on how the administration’s immigration crackdown was playing out from the front lines. What I saw Thursday was the culmination of ICE’s aggressive behavior. by Till Eckert September 26, 2025, 7:20 pm Share Contrast Change Appearance Change Appearance Auto Light Dark Republish Republish This Story for Free Creative Commons License (CC BY-NC-ND 3.0) Thank you for your interest in republishing this story. You are free to republish it so long as you do the following: You have to credit ProPublica and any co-reporting partners . In the byline, we prefer &quot;Author Name, Publication(s).&quot; At the top of the text of your story, include a line that reads: &quot;This story was originally published by ProPublica.&quot; You must link the word &quot;ProPublica&quot; to the original URL of the story. If you&#039;re republishing online, you must link to the URL of this story on propublica.org, include all of the links from our story, including our newsletter sign up language and link, and use our PixelPing tag . If you use canonical metadata, please use the ProPublica URL. For more information about canonical metadata, refer to this Google SEO link . You can&#039;t edit our material, except to reflect relative changes in time, location and editorial style. (For example, &quot;yesterday&quot; can be changed to &quot;last week,&quot; and &quot;Portland, Ore.&quot; to &quot;Portland&quot; or &quot;here.&quot;) You cannot republish our photographs or illustrations without specific permission. Please contact [email&#160;protected] . It&#039;s okay to put our stories on pages with ads, but not ads specifically sold against our stories. You can&#039;t state or imply that donations to your organization support ProPublica&#039;s work. You can&#039;t sell our material separately or syndicate it. This includes publishing or syndicating our work on platforms or apps such as Apple News, Google News, etc. You can&#039;t republish our material wholesale, or automatically; you need to select stories to be republished individually. (To inquire about syndication or licensing opportunities, contact [email&#160;protected] .) You can&#039;t use our work to populate a website designed to improve rankings on search engines or solely to gain revenue from network-based advertisements. We do not generally permit translation of our stories into another language. Any website our stories appear on must include a prominent and effective way to contact you. HTML I Filmed the ICE Officer Who Shoved a Woman to the Floor Inside a New York Courthouse U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement has taken one of its agents off the streets after he was caught on video throwing a distraught mother to the floor of a New York City courthouse in front of her two children on Thursday. It wasn’t the first time videos have captured scenes of immigration agents using violent force to carry out the Trump administration’s mass deportation campaign. But the videos of this incident — one of which I filmed for ProPublica — seemed to stir something different. In a rare move, the government publicly reprimanded an officer for such conduct. “The officer’s conduct in this video is unacceptable and beneath the men and women of ICE,” an assistant secretary at the Department of Homeland Security, Tricia McLaughlin, said . “Our ICE law enforcement are held to the highest professional standards and this officer is being relieved of current duties as we conduct a full investigation.” I’ve only been in the U.S. as a reporter for eight weeks — so I just barely arrived. I come from Germany and am on the staff at Correctiv, a nonprofit investigative newsroom. I’d been alarmed by videos of masked ICE agents sweeping immigrants off the street, scenes I never thought I’d see in the United States, and I came with the goal of witnessing what was going on for myself. I wanted to report on how the administration’s immigration crackdown was playing out from the front lines. Since arriving, I’ve spent time reporting in immigrant neighborhoods, emergency rooms, churches, ICE field offices and, most recently, in the federal courthouse in lower Manhattan. I’ve gone there most every morning for the past two weeks. During that time, I’d seen ICE drag several immigrants away from their families, all of them sobbing and pleading with the officers not to separate them from their loved ones. But what happened Thursday was a shocking escalation. When I emerged from the elevator on the 14th floor, I heard a woman’s pleas. She sounded terrified. I walked around the corner to see what was happening. At the end of the hallway, I saw the woman, Monica Moreta-Galarza, standing in front of an agent. She was crying because her husband had been detained. She told the agent she was afraid her husband would be hurt. She wanted to go with him. I began recording and captured the agent barking back at the woman. “Adios,” he said, over and over, pressing toward her as if warning her to back away. When she didn’t, he grabbed her. The rest — including her children’s screams — has been memorialized online. I followed Moreta-Galarza to the hospital. She is an immigrant from Ecuador and has been living in Coney Island since last year. Speaking in Spanish, she said the government routinely beat people in her home country. “I didn’t think I’d come here to the United States and the same thing would happen to me.” This morning, I went back to the courthouse with the goal of speaking to the agent who’d tackled Moreta-Galarza. I’d heard the other ICE agents call him Victor, though I can’t be sure that’s his real name. By the time I got there, however, he was gone. ProPublica’s mission is impact. I don’t think any of us expected we’d help bring it about with my video. The question now is what will the government do the next time something like this happens. I asked DHS how many agents have been disciplined this year for misusing force. They did not answer that question. Copy HTML ProPublica is a nonprofit newsroom that investigates abuses of power. Sign up to receive our biggest stories as soon as they’re published. U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement has taken one of its agents off the streets after he was caught on video throwing a distraught mother to the floor of a New York City courthouse in front of her two children on Thursday. It wasn’t the first time videos have captured scenes of immigration agents using violent force to carry out the Trump administration’s mass deportation campaign. But the videos of this incident — one of which I filmed for ProPublica — seemed to stir something different. In a rare move, the government publicly reprimanded an officer for such conduct. “The officer’s conduct in this video is unacceptable and beneath the men and women of ICE,” an assistant secretary at the Department of Homeland Security, Tricia McLaughlin, said . “Our ICE law enforcement are held to the highest professional standards and this officer is being relieved of current duties as we conduct a full investigation.” A video filmed by Till Eckert shows the officer throwing Moreta-Galarza to the ground inside the courthouse. Till Eckert/ProPublica. Edited for privacy by ProPublica. I’ve only been in the U.S. as a reporter for eight weeks — so I just barely arrived. I come from Germany and am on the staff at Correctiv, a nonprofit investigative newsroom. I’d been alarmed by videos of masked ICE agents sweeping immigrants off the street, scenes I never thought I’d see in the United States, and I came with the goal of witnessing what was going on for myself. I wanted to report on how the administration’s immigration crackdown was playing out from the front lines. Since arriving, I’ve spent time reporting in immigrant neighborhoods, emergency rooms, churches, ICE field offices and, most recently, in the federal courthouse in lower Manhattan. I’ve gone there most every morning for the past two weeks. During that time, I’d seen ICE drag several immigrants away from their families, all of them sobbing and pleading with the officers not to separate them from their loved ones. But what happened Thursday was a shocking escalation. When I emerged from the elevator on the 14th floor, I heard a woman’s pleas. She sounded terrified. I walked around the corner to see what was happening. At the end of the hallway, I saw the woman, Monica Moreta-Galarza, standing in front of an agent. She was crying because her husband had been detained. She told the agent she was afraid her husband would be hurt. She wanted to go with him. I began recording and captured the agent barking back at the woman. “Adios,” he said, over and over, pressing toward her as if warning her to back away. When she didn’t, he grabbed her. The rest — including her children’s screams — has been memorialized online. The federal agent yells and waves his finger at Moreta-Galarza after throwing her to the ground. Graham Macindoe I followed Moreta-Galarza to the hospital. She is an immigrant from Ecuador and has been living in Coney Island since last year. Speaking in Spanish, she said the government routinely beat people in her home country. “I didn’t think I’d come here to the United States and the same thing would happen to me.” This morning, I went back to the courthouse with the goal of speaking to the agent who’d tackled Moreta-Galarza. I’d heard the other ICE agents call him Victor, though I can’t be sure that’s his real name. By the time I got there, however, he was gone. ProPublica’s mission is impact. I don’t think any of us expected we’d help bring it about with my video. The question now is what will the government do the next time something like this happens. I asked DHS how many agents have been disciplined this year for misusing force. They did not answer that question. Corrections If you have tips about new ICE enforcement tactics in courts, we want to hear from you. Reach out via Signal ( tilleckert.90 ) or propublica.org/tips . Filed under — Immigration Contributors Till Eckert More Stories : Till Eckert Need to Get in Touch? What We’re Watching During Donald Trump’s second presidency, ProPublica will focus on the areas most in need of scrutiny. Here are some of the issues our reporters will be watching — and how to get in touch with them securely. Learn more about our reporting team. We will continue to share our areas of interest as the news develops. Sharon Lerner I cover health and the environment and the agencies that govern them, including the Environmental Protection Agency. Contact me Andy Kroll I cover justice and the rule of law, including the Justice Department, U.S. attorneys and the courts. Contact me Melissa Sanchez I report on immigration and labor, and I am based in Chicago. Contact me Jesse Coburn I cover housing and transportation, including the companies working in those fields and the regulators overseeing them. Contact me If you don’t have a specific tip or story in mind, we could still use your help. Sign up to be a member of our federal worker source network to stay in touch. Slide 1 &nbsp; Slide 2 &nbsp; Slide 3 &nbsp; Slide 4 &nbsp; Slide 5 &nbsp; Slide 6 &nbsp; More in Immigration More in Immigration Caret Encontramos más de 40 casos en que los agentes de inmigración usaron llaves de estrangulamiento prohibidas y otras maniobras que pueden cortar la respiración We Found More Than 40 Cases of Immigration Agents Using Banned Chokeholds and Other Moves That Can Cut Off Breathing They Came to the U.S. Legally. Then Trump Stripped Their Status Away. Vinieron a Estados Unidos legalmente. Luego, Trump eliminó su estatus. Immigration Agents Have Often Grabbed and Mistreated Citizens, Congressional Investigators Find The Data Doesn’t Lie: How ProPublica Reports the Truth in an Era of False Claims Most Read Government by AI? Trump Administration Plans to Write Regulations Using Artificial Intelligence We Found That More Than 170 U.S. Citizens Have Been Held by Immigration Agents. They’ve Been Kicked, Dragged and Detained for Days. Complaint Accuses Trump’s Criminal Attorney of “Blatant” Crypto Conflict in His Role at DOJ How “Bitcoin Jesus” Avoided Prison, Thanks to One of the “Friends of Trump” The Secret IRS Files: Trove of Never-Before-Seen Records Reveal How the Wealthiest Avoid Income Tax Stay informed with the Daily Digest. Mail Email Address: Arrow Right Sign Up ProPublica Investigative Journalism in the Public Interest © Copyright 2026 Pro Publica Inc. Sites ProPublica Local Reporting Network Texas Tribune Partnership Electionland Sections Topics Series Videos News Apps Get Involved The Nerd Blog @ProPublica Events Info About Board and Advisors Officers and Staff Diversity Jobs and Fellowships Media Center Reports Impact Awards Corrections Policies Code of Ethics Advertising Policy Gift Acceptance Privacy Policy Follow Newsletters iOS and Android RSS Feed More Send Us Tips Steal Our Stories Browse via Tor Contact Us Donate More Ways to Give Journalism That Holds Power to Account Sign up for ProPublica’s Big Story newsletter and get our latest stories delivered straight to your inbox. Please enter your email address: Get the Newsletter Subscribe