ICE agent seen on viral video shoving woman had no "compassion," victim says - CBS New York Latest U.S. Winter Storm Minneapolis Shooting World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds New York | News Weather Voters Decide Sports Video New York Shows Your Home Team All News NY News Bronx News Brooklyn News Harlem News Long Island News Northern Suburbs Queens News NJ News CT News Investigations Politics Education Transportation Crime Housing Arts &amp; Entertainment Climate &amp; Environment Health &amp; Wellness Aging &amp; Caregiving First Alert Weather Radars &amp; Maps CBS2 Weather Map CBS2 Weather Watchers First Alert Weather 101 Share Photos &amp; Videos All Sports Giants Yankees Knicks Rangers Islanders Jets Mets Nets Devils CBS Sports HQ Odds Latest News CBS New York Investigates Book Club with Mary Calvi Class Act with Chris Wragge #BetterTogether Breaking The Stigma Furry Friend Finder Sandy The 5:33 | Legacy of the LIRR Massacre On The Dot with David Schechter: Wildfires &amp; Climate Change Climate Change: Protecting our Planet Station Info WCBS-TV WLNY-TV Contact Us Advertise Contests &amp; Promotions Galleries Links &amp; Numbers Download Our App Memorials Watch CBS News Local News ICE agent seen on viral video shoving woman had no "compassion," victim says By Adi Guajardo September 28, 2025 / 8:07 PM EDT / CBS New York Add CBS News on Google The mother who was shoved to the ground by a U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agent at the federal courthouse in Lower Manhattan broke her silence on Sunday. The video of Thursday's altercation went viral, but the woman told CBS News New York that was not the first interaction her family had with the agent. Read more :&nbsp; Demonstrations held across NYC for Stand Against ICE Day of Action "I was left in shock" It was a moment Monica Elizabeth Moreta-Galarza said she never thought would unfold at a federal courthouse in the United States. "I was left in shock," she said in Spanish. She said the agent seen on the video shoving her to the ground at 26 Federal Plaza pulled her hair and yelled at her and her two children in a separate room before what transpired on the footage unfolded. "He pushed me inside and he told me to calm down, to shut up, shut up and because my kids were crying, he told them to shut up and he closed the door," Moreta-Galarza said. Read more :&nbsp; Deadly shooting at Dallas ICE facility investigated by FBI as targeted attack; medical examiner identifies victim "I didn't do anything to him" On the video, Moreta-Galarza is heard pleading with the officer after being separated from her husband of 17 years following their immigration court hearing. "I didn't do anything to him. I just begged him, and any human would have some compassion, but he didn't have that," she said. Moreta-Galarza said the judge granted her family a court hearing for next year. They are all seeking asylum from Ecuador. She said she was stunned when agents took him into custody. ICE agent in question fired The Department of Homeland Security said the agent has been relieved of his duties as it investigates the incident . DHS spokeswoman Tricia McLaughlin also released a statement calling the ICE officer's behavior "unacceptable and beneath the men and women of ICE." Lina Stillman, the family's attorney, said the incident sends a message to migrants. "That the same thing will happen to them, that violence will be used against them," Stillman said. Moreta-Galarza fought back tears as she reflected on the moment. She said her children and the word of God are keeping her going. "Please have compassion for us" She also had a message for President Trump. "I am asking the president directly that he please have compassion for us," Moreta-Galarza said. CBS News New York reached out to DHS several times Sunday, but did not immediately hear back. The family attorney said her mission right now is reuniting the family. More from CBS News Gov. Kathy Hochul calls for removal of DHS Secretary Kristi Noem Law enforcement legal expert dives into Minneapolis ICE killings Philly protesters rally in support of Minnesota after another deadly shooting More protests in Chicago after federal agents shoot, kill Minneapolis resident St. Paul mayor blasts DHS for mistaken identity arrest In: Immigration U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Manhattan United States Department of Homeland Security Deportation &copy; 2025 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved. Featured Local Savings Mother shoved to the ground by ICE agent at Manhattan federal courthouse speaks out Mother shoved to the ground by ICE agent at Manhattan federal courthouse speaks out 02:12 Mother shoved to the ground by ICE agent at Manhattan federal courthouse speaks out (02:12) Gov. Kathy Hochul calls for removal of DHS Secretary Kristi Noem Law enforcement legal expert dives into Minneapolis ICE killings Philly protesters rally in support of Minnesota after another deadly shooting More protests in Chicago after federal agents shoot, kill Minneapolis resident St. Paul mayor blasts DHS for mistaken identity arrest Georgia lawmakers react after Border Patrol agent kills man in Minneapolis What we know about latest shooting by federal agents in Minneapolis Protesters gathered to rally against federal agents, Trump admin in the Loop Featured Minneapolis Shooting Snowfall Totals Broncos vs. Patriots Seahawks vs. Rams Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram TikTok X CBS News New York Meet the Team WLNY-TV 55 Program Guide Contests &amp; Promotions Advertise With Us Sitemap Regulation Public File for WCBS-TV Public File for WLNY-TV Public Inspection File Help FCC Applications WCBS-TV EEO Report WLNY-TV EEO Report Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman &copy;2026 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue