ICE Escalates Violence Against Protesters In Broadview; Journalist Arrested Real Chicago stories start in your neighborhood Get a daily digest of stories from all neighborhoods across Chicago. On Sundays, you'll get our reporters’ best of the week, highlighting the people and places that make our neighborhoods home. Sign up Real Chicago stories start in your neighborhood Get a daily digest of stories from all neighborhoods across Chicago. On Sundays, you'll get our reporters’ best of the week, highlighting the people and places that make our neighborhoods home. Sign up Real Chicago stories start in your neighborhood Get a daily digest of stories from all neighborhoods across Chicago. On Sundays, you'll get our reporters’ best of the week, highlighting the people and places that make our neighborhoods home. Sign up Close SUBSCRIBE Sign In Search for: Search Latest Stories Neighborhoods Open dropdown menu Austin, Garfield Park, North Lawndale Belmont Cragin, Hermosa Beverly, Mount Greenwood, Morgan Park Bridgeport, Chinatown, McKinley Park Open dropdown menu Gage Park, Brighton Park McKinley Park Bronzeville, Near South Side Downtown Open dropdown menu Loop River North, Gold Coast, Near North Side South Loop West Loop Edgebrook, Edison Park, Sauganash Englewood, Chatham, Auburn Gresham Open dropdown menu Ashburn Hyde Park, Woodlawn, South Shore Jefferson Park, Portage Park, Norwood Park Open dropdown menu O&#8217;Hare Lakeview, Wrigleyville, Northalsted Open dropdown menu Roscoe Village Lincoln Park, Old Town Lincoln Square, North Center, Irving Park Open dropdown menu Albany Park Ravenswood Logan Square, Humboldt Park, Avondale Midway, West Lawn Pilsen, Little Village, Back of the Yards Open dropdown menu Back of the Yards Roseland, Pullman South Chicago, East Side Open dropdown menu Hegewisch Uptown, Edgewater, Rogers Park Open dropdown menu Andersonville Wicker Park, Bucktown, West Town Arts &#038; Culture Investigations Newsletters Podcasts Donate Shop Open dropdown menu Merch Photos Facebook Page Instagram Twitter Bluesky Threads TikTok Close Search Latest Stories Neighborhoods Austin, Garfield Park, North Lawndale Belmont Cragin, Hermosa Beverly, Mount Greenwood, Morgan Park Bridgeport, Chinatown, McKinley Park Gage Park, Brighton Park McKinley Park Bronzeville, Near South Side Downtown Loop River North, Gold Coast, Near North Side South Loop West Loop Edgebrook, Edison Park, Sauganash Englewood, Chatham, Auburn Gresham Ashburn Hyde Park, Woodlawn, South Shore Jefferson Park, Portage Park, Norwood Park O&#8217;Hare Lakeview, Wrigleyville, Northalsted Roscoe Village Lincoln Park, Old Town Lincoln Square, North Center, Irving Park Albany Park Ravenswood Logan Square, Humboldt Park, Avondale Midway, West Lawn Pilsen, Little Village, Back of the Yards Back of the Yards Roseland, Pullman South Chicago, East Side Hegewisch Uptown, Edgewater, Rogers Park Andersonville Wicker Park, Bucktown, West Town Arts &#038; Culture Investigations Newsletters Podcasts Donate Shop Merch Photos Our Mission Board of Directors Our Team Contact Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Skip to content Menu Facebook Page Instagram Twitter Bluesky Threads TikTok Block Club Chicago Your Neighborhood News Site SUBSCRIBE Sign In Open Search Search for: Search SUBSCRIBE Menu Sign In Latest Stories Neighborhoods Open dropdown menu Austin, Garfield Park, North Lawndale Belmont Cragin, Hermosa Beverly, Mount Greenwood, Morgan Park Bridgeport, Chinatown, McKinley Park Open dropdown menu Gage Park, Brighton Park McKinley Park Bronzeville, Near South Side Downtown Open dropdown menu Loop River North, Gold Coast, Near North Side South Loop West Loop Edgebrook, Edison Park, Sauganash Englewood, Chatham, Auburn Gresham Open dropdown menu Ashburn Hyde Park, Woodlawn, South Shore Jefferson Park, Portage Park, Norwood Park Open dropdown menu O&#8217;Hare Lakeview, Wrigleyville, Northalsted Open dropdown menu Roscoe Village Lincoln Park, Old Town Lincoln Square, North Center, Irving Park Open dropdown menu Albany Park Ravenswood Logan Square, Humboldt Park, Avondale Midway, West Lawn Pilsen, Little Village, Back of the Yards Open dropdown menu Back of the Yards Roseland, Pullman South Chicago, East Side Open dropdown menu Hegewisch Uptown, Edgewater, Rogers Park Open dropdown menu Andersonville Wicker Park, Bucktown, West Town Arts &#038; Culture Investigations Newsletters Podcasts Donate Shop Open dropdown menu Merch Photos Topics Business Block Club Eats LGBTQ+ News Weather Things To Do Openings &#038; Closings Neighborhood Maps Posted in Citywide ICE Escalates Violence Against Protesters In Broadview; Journalist Arrested The use of tear gas, flash bang grenades and other weapons against protesters and journalists ramped up Saturday after Broadview&#8217;s mayor spoke out against ICE&#8217;s tactics. Eleven people were arrested at the ICE facility Saturday, officials said. by Charles Thrush September 28, 2025 September 29, 2025 Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Credibility: Original Reporting Sources Cited Original Reporting This article contains new, firsthand information uncovered by its reporter(s). This includes directly interviewing sources and research/analysis of primary source documents. Sources Cited As a news piece, this article cites verifiable, third-party sources which have all been thoroughly fact-checked and deemed credible by the Newsroom. Federal agents tackle two people during a protest near the Immigration and Customs Enforcement facility at 1930 Beach St. in Broadview, Ill. on Sept. 26, 2025. Credit: Colin Boyle/Block Club Chicago BROADVIEW — A day after the mayor of suburban Broadview sounded the alarm about ICE officials &#8220;making war&#8221; in her community, federal authorities appeared to double down Saturday, arresting at least one journalist and using chemical weapons on protesters and members of the press. In a Friday letter to the Department of Homeland Security, Broadview Mayor Katrina Thompson asked that the agency stop &#8220;deploying chemical arms, such as tear gas, pepper spray, etc. against American citizens, our residents, and our first responders,&#8221; at the ICE processing facility, 1903 Beach St. in Broadview. After the letter was covered by the media, Broadview police were warned by ICE of increased enforcement action Saturday, which they believe is an act of retaliation by Homeland Security for speaking out. &#8220;In retaliation for the Village of Broadview yesterday calling on the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Agency to &#8216;stop making war on our community,&#8217; ICE agents this morning informed the Broadview Police Department that there will be &#8216;a s*** show&#8217; in Broadview today,&#8221; a press release from the village said. The Sun-Times reports that agents fired pepper balls into a group of about 75 protesters Saturday evening and made several arrests. Steve Held, a journalist with investigative upstart Unraveled Press, was among those arrested Saturday, according to Unraveled and other journalists on the scene. Unraveled said on social media early Sunday that Held was &#8220;safe&#8221; and among those released by federal authorities overnight. Raven Geary, Held&#8217;s colleague at Unraveled, was shot in the face with a pepper ball by federal officers on Friday and sought medical attention afterwards, Block Club reporters witnessed. &#8220;We have never witnessed anything like what ICE has unleashed on our communities this week,&#8221; Unraveled said in a statement posted to social media Sunday. A piece of an object fired by federal agents during a protest near the Immigration and Customs Enforcement facility at 1930 Beach St. in Broadview, Ill. on Sept. 26, 2025. Credit: Colin Boyle/Block Club Chicago Eleven people were arrested outside the ICE facility Saturday, the Department of Homeland Security said in a statement posted to the platform X, previously known as Twitter. The National Lawyers Guild of Chicago confirmed that number of arrests, adding that five people remained in federal custody as of Sunday morning. The guild&#8217;s own legal observers were subjected to violence by ICE officers at the scene, it said in a statement. &#8220;The agents&#8217; attacks were notably distinct from prior days in that officers went after people who were simply gathered to support the active protesters,&#8221; the guild said in a statement. &#8220;Officers forcibly removed people sheltering from tear gas in vehicles, resulting in the separation of a child from family members who were bringing food in support of the protest.&#8221; In a joint statement ahead of Saturday&#8217;s planned protest, Evanston Mayor Daniel Biss, State Sen. Robert Peters and Ald. Andre Vasquez (40th) urged civilians to stay away from further protests near the facility — fearing that ICE will be willing to use lethal force on peaceful protesters. &#8220;ICE has escalated their use of tear gas, pepper rounds, and rubber bullets, shooting protesters and members of the press in the face without provocation on numerous occasions,&#8221; the letter states. &#8220;ICE agents at Broadview have also unholstered their guns repeatedly, pointing machine and hand guns directly at protesters. ICE is willing to use lethal force, as we’ve seen in the recent killing of Silverio Villegas Gonzalez in Franklin Park.&#8221; Federal officers representing the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms were seen assisting Homeland Security agents outside the Broadview facility Saturday. Federal agents tackle two people during a protest near the Immigration and Customs Enforcement facility at 1930 Beach St. in Broadview, Ill. on Sept. 26, 2025. Credit: Colin Boyle/Block Club Chicago Tensions have been escalating outside of the processing facility in the western suburb since Sept. 19, when federal officers began shooting pepper spray balls, deploying tear gas and throwing flash bang grenades at protesters attempting to block federal vehicles from entering and exiting the premises. Friday&#8217;s protest saw federal officers unleash more violence on protesters, including a sniper who shot baton rounds into a crowd of hundreds packed into a parking lot adjacent to the facility. Saturday&#8217;s action comes as President Donald Trump announced a deployment of federal troops to ICE facilities in Portland, Oregon, and elsewhere – authorizing &#8220;full force&#8221; on protesters he described as extremists. In a statement Saturday, Gov. J.B. Pritzker said he is &#8220;monitoring the federal deployments&#8221; and in close contact with Broadview police. &#8220;I urge members of the public to remain calm, stay safe, and document what you see with your phones and cameras,&#8221; Pritzker said. My senior team has also asked legal organizations to support monitoring on the ground. By observing and recording peacefully, we can ensure that any violations of the law are brought to light and those responsible are held accountable.&#8221; Support Local News! Subscribe to Block Club Chicago , an independent, 501(c)(3), journalist-run newsroom. Every dime we make funds reporting from Chicago’s neighborhoods. Already subscribe?&nbsp; Click here to gift a subscription , or you can support Block Club with a tax-deductible donation. Listen to the Block Club Chicago podcast: Listen On Apple Podcasts Listen On Spotify Is There Any Way Out Of Chicago&#8217;s Horrible Parking Meter Deal? Episode play icon Is There Any Way Out Of Chicago&#8217;s Horrible Parking Meter Deal? Episode play icon The 28-Year-Old Breaking Birding Records In Chicago Episode play icon Good. Better. Best. Grater &#8212; The Bears’ Wild Ride Continues Episode play icon As Crime Rates Fall, Domestic Homicides Are Surging In Chicago. Why? Episode play icon Bears. Packers. Grate night? Or Does The Pack Still Own Da Bears? UPDATE: DAAAAAAAAA BEARS Load More Search Results placeholder Previous Episode Show Episodes List Next Episode Show Podcast Information Tagged: Operation Midway Blitz Post navigation Previous Forty Acres Fresh Market Opens In Austin, An Area Facing &#8216;Food Apartheid&#8217; Next Armed Border Patrol Agents Disrupt Peaceful Downtown Day: &#8216;It&#8217;s Horrifying&#8217; Community Send News Tips FAQ/Help About Us Our Team Board of Directors Free Text Alerts Staff Diversity Report 2024 Annual Report Support Us! Donate to Block Club Chicago More Ways to Give Manage My Account Advertise Our Supporters Jobs Media Kit EIN: 82-3844275 Block Club Chicago is a nonprofit news organization dedicated to delivering reliable, nonpartisan and essential coverage of Chicago’s diverse neighborhoods. &copy; 2026 Block Club Chicago Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook Page Instagram Twitter Bluesky Threads TikTok Sign in Close Enter the code sent to your email. Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Create an account Sign in to an existing account Go back Continue Set a password (optional) Terms of Service . Sign up for newsletters Close Get the best of Block Club Chicago directly in your email inbox. Sending to: Citywide Morning Newsletter A daily digest of the top news from across all neighborhoods of Chicago: our best coverage from every corner of the city and the most important stories for all residents and guests. Continue Gift this article Close Link Copy link