PPB Monitors Protest Activity Near ICE Facility; Six Arrests Made | Portland.gov
Skip to main content
information
Portland and the federal government
Learn about our sanctuary city status, efforts to block federal overreach:
Portland.gov/Federal
Join the Best: The Portland Police Bureau is hiring officers.
Looking for an exciting & rewarding career, with benefits? We’re hiring!
Salary ranges $84k-$120k +pay incentives.
Benefits are 95% paid by the city. Visit:
JoinPortlandPolice.com
PPB Monitors Protest Activity Near ICE Facility; Six Arrests Made
Press Release
View full size image
of News Release graphic with a close up of an officer shoulder patch.
Officers made targeted arrests during a gathering in the South Portland Neighborhood, near the ICE Facility.
Published
January 9, 2026 12:29 am
Updated
January 9, 2026 10:27 am
*This sentence was updated to include an omitted word: "At 11:30 p.m., Officers made another arrest of a person refusing to stop using amplified sound equipment despite warnings given."*
On the evening of Thursday, January 8, 2026, the Portland Police Bureau (PPB) activated an Incident Management Team to monitor protest activity in the South Portland Neighborhood near the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) building. PPB resources included the Rapid Response Team (RRT), Dialogue Liaison Officers (DLOs), Mobile Field Forces and Sound Truck personnel. The Portland Police Bureau is also grateful for the assistance of Portland Fire & Rescue and the Oregon State Police.
At about 9 p.m., officers requested that people move to the sidewalk, as traffic remained open in the area. An officer in the PPB Sound Truck, a loudspeaker-equipped police vehicle, broadcast that request repeatedly to the group.
PPB moved in and made targeted arrests resulting in five custodies:
Ezekiel Mclain, 28, of Portland: Riot, Disorderly Conduct in the Second Degree, Interfering with a Peace Officer
Benjamin J. Davis, 24, of Portland: Riot, Disorderly Conduct in the Second Degree, Interfering with a Peace Officer
Seth Todd, 24, of Clackamas, Oregon: Disorderly Conduct in the Second Degree, Interfering with a Peace Officer
Jordan Brokaw, 28, of Portland: Disorderly Conduct in the Second Degree
Ashley Daugherty, 48, Disorderly Conduct in the Second Degree, Interfering with a Peace Officer
At 11:30 p.m., Officers made another arrest of a person refusing to stop using amplified sound equipment despite warnings given. Officers arrested:
Daryn Herzberg
, 35, of Portland.  He was charged with Disorderly Conduct in the Second Degree.
All custodies were booked into the Multnomah County Detention Center.
To date, the total number of arrests related to ICE protest activity is 79.
PPB does not engage in immigration enforcement as outlined in PPB
Directive 810.10
, but is still responsible for maintaining public safety and enforcing state laws. Chief Day's letter to the community and FAQ regarding immigration can be found
here
.
PPB sends out public safety announcements via our Events channel on X (formerly known as Twitter). For ongoing updates,
follow our page here
.
PPB will continue to monitor protest activity. While PPB's role is public safety and supporting constitutionally protected activity, part of our role is to address criminal acts. Officers may be seen in a larger group to make targeted arrests for specific crimes committed. PPB members may also investigate crimes and conduct follow-up investigations into criminal activity later and will forward cases to the Multnomah County District Attorney for prosecution when feasible. As a reminder, just because arrests are not made at the scene, when tensions are high, that does not mean that people are not being charged with crimes later. Information on PPB's Public Order teams can be found
here
.
###PPB###
Contact
Police Public Information Officer
📩 Get PPB News via Email
email
ppbpio@police.portlandoregon.gov
This email goes to the current PIO on duty. Expect replies during day shift hours only.
Follow on Social Media
portlandpolice
portlandpolice
portlandpolice
PPB on Bluesky
PPB on LinkedIn
Police Videos
See something we could improve on this page?
Give website feedback
.
Back to top