PPB Monitors Protest Activity Near ICE Facility; Six Arrests Made | Portland.gov Skip to main content information Federal agents shoot two people in Hazelwood Respond with calm and purpose. Stay up to date. Search Search Search search close Menu General Information Advisory Groups Groups, boards, and commissions. Bureaus and Offices City departments. Calendar of Events Events, public meetings, and hearings. Charter, Code, Policies Official City documents. City Council Districts, officials, meetings, and news. Construction Projects Building, transportation, maintenance, and sewer projects. Find a Park Parks, facilities, and reservations. Neighborhoods Neighborhood directory. News Articles, blogs, press releases, public notices, and newsletters. Projects Planning, outreach and education, strategic, and technology projects. Services and Resources Service and resource directory. Jobs with the City Opportunities posted to governmentjobs.com Home Police News Join the Best: The Portland Police Bureau is hiring officers. Looking for an exciting &amp; rewarding career, with benefits? We’re hiring! Salary ranges $84k-$120k +pay incentives. Benefits are 95% paid by the city. Visit: JoinPortlandPolice.com PPB Monitors Protest Activity Near ICE Facility; Six Arrests Made Press Release View full size image of News Release graphic with a close up of an officer shoulder patch. Officers made targeted arrests during a gathering in the South Portland Neighborhood, near the ICE Facility. Published January 9, 2026 12:29 am Updated January 9, 2026 10:27 am *This sentence was updated to include an omitted word: "At 11:30 p.m., Officers made another arrest of a person refusing to stop using amplified sound equipment despite warnings given."* On the evening of Thursday, January 8, 2026, the Portland Police Bureau (PPB) activated an Incident Management Team to monitor protest activity in the South Portland Neighborhood near the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) building. PPB resources included the Rapid Response Team (RRT), Dialogue Liaison Officers (DLOs), Mobile Field Forces and Sound Truck personnel. The Portland Police Bureau is also grateful for the assistance of Portland Fire &amp; Rescue and the Oregon State Police. At about 9 p.m., officers requested that people move to the sidewalk, as traffic remained open in the area. An officer in the PPB Sound Truck, a loudspeaker-equipped police vehicle, broadcast that request repeatedly to the group. PPB moved in and made targeted arrests resulting in five custodies: Ezekiel Mclain, 28, of Portland: Riot, Disorderly Conduct in the Second Degree, Interfering with a Peace Officer Benjamin J. Davis, 24, of Portland: Riot, Disorderly Conduct in the Second Degree, Interfering with a Peace Officer Seth Todd, 24, of Clackamas, Oregon: Disorderly Conduct in the Second Degree, Interfering with a Peace Officer Jordan Brokaw, 28, of Portland: Disorderly Conduct in the Second Degree Ashley Daugherty, 48, Disorderly Conduct in the Second Degree, Interfering with a Peace Officer At 11:30 p.m., Officers made another arrest of a person refusing to stop using amplified sound equipment despite warnings given. Officers arrested: Daryn Herzberg , 35, of Portland.&nbsp; He was charged with Disorderly Conduct in the Second Degree. All custodies were booked into the Multnomah County Detention Center. To date, the total number of arrests related to ICE protest activity is 79. PPB does not engage in immigration enforcement as outlined in PPB&nbsp; Directive 810.10 , but is still responsible for maintaining public safety and enforcing state laws. Chief Day's letter to the community and FAQ regarding immigration can be found&nbsp; here . PPB sends out public safety announcements via our Events channel on X (formerly known as Twitter). For ongoing updates,&nbsp; follow our page here . PPB will continue to monitor protest activity. While PPB's role is public safety and supporting constitutionally protected activity, part of our role is to address criminal acts. Officers may be seen in a larger group to make targeted arrests for specific crimes committed. PPB members may also investigate crimes and conduct follow-up investigations into criminal activity later and will forward cases to the Multnomah County District Attorney for prosecution when feasible. As a reminder, just because arrests are not made at the scene, when tensions are high, that does not mean that people are not being charged with crimes later. Information on PPB's Public Order teams can be found&nbsp; here . &nbsp; ###PPB### Contact Police Public Information Officer 📩 Get PPB News via Email email ppbpio@police.portlandoregon.gov This email goes to the current PIO on duty. Expect replies during day shift hours only. Follow on Social Media portlandpolice portlandpolice portlandpolice PPB on Bluesky PPB on LinkedIn Police Videos See something we could improve on&nbsp;this page?&nbsp; Give website feedback . The City of Portland ensures meaningful access to City programs, services, and activities to comply with Civil Rights Title VI and ADA Title II laws and reasonably provides: translation, interpretation, modifications, accommodations, alternative formats, auxiliary aids and services. Request an ADA accommodation or call 503-823-4000 , Relay Service: 711 . 503-823-4000 &nbsp; Traducción e Interpretación&nbsp;| Biên Dịch và Thông Dịch&nbsp;| 口笔译服务&nbsp;| Устный и письменный перевод&nbsp;| Turjumaad iyo Fasiraad&nbsp;| Письмовий і усний переклад&nbsp;| Traducere și interpretariat&nbsp;| Chiaku me Awewen Kapas&nbsp;| अनुवादन तथा व्याख्या Explore all services arrow right General information email 311@portlandoregon.gov phone number 311 Information and Customer Service phone number 503-823-4000 Oregon Relay Service 711 Oregon Relay Service Follow on Social Media PortlandORGov PortlandGov PortlandGov Terms, policies ADA Accommodation Captioning, transcription Privacy policy Portland.gov About this Website Employee Portal Editor log in City of Portland, Oregon &copy; Copyright 2018-2026 Back to top