Title: Convicted child sex offender from Philippines passes away at Harlingen hospital
Published: 2025-12-08 00:00:00

HOUSTON — A 72-year-old convicted child sex offender and citizen of the Philippines died Dec. 5 at Valley Baptist Medical Center in Harlingen while in ICE custody. He was pronounced dead at 2:20 p.m. by the emergency physician on duty. Montejo was transported to Valley Baptist from Treasure Hills Healthcare and Rehabilitation Center in Harlingen after falling ill.

Pete Sumalo Montejo entered the United States as a lawful permanent resident at the Honolulu, Hawaii, port of entry on Mar. 13, 1962. In 1992, the Houston Police Department arrested Montejo for aggravated sexual assault of a child. On June 12, 1992, the 229th District Court in Harris County, Texas, convicted him of aggravated sexual assault of a child and sentenced him to seven years’ probation. In May 2022, Tomball police arrested Montejo for driving while intoxicated and failure to register as sex offender. In July 2024, Montejo was arrested again by the Tomball Police Department for possession of a controlled substance. On Dec. 18, 2024, the 182nd District Court in Harris County convicted him of possession of a controlled substance and sentenced him to two years’ probation.

On Feb. 25, ICE arrested Montejo during a targeted enforcement action and transported him to the Montgomery Processing Center. That same day, ICE served him with a notice to appear. He appeared before an immigration judge in Conroe on March 25, and the case was reset. On May 2, medical staff at the Montgomery Processing Center notified ICE that Montejo was being admitted to HCA Kingwood Hospital due to shortness of breath and hypoxia. He was discharged from the hospital and returned to custody on June 30. Between July and November 2025, Montejo was hospitalized several times for medical treatment due to a variety of naturally caused illnesses, such as anemia and septic shock resulting from pneumonia, before being returned to ICE custody.

ICE notified the Department of Homeland Security’s Office of Inspector General, ICE’s Office of Professional Responsibility and the Philippines’ consulate about Montejo’s death, as required by agency policy.

ICE makes official notifications to Congress, nongovernmental organization stakeholders, and the media upon an official report of a detained illegal alien’s death, and per agency policy, posts a news release with relevant details on the ICE public website within two business days. This information may be accessed in the ICE.gov Newsroom. Additionally, congressional requirements described in the DHS Appropriations Bill of 2018 require ICE to make public all reports regarding an in-custody death within 90 days. These reports may be accessed on the Detainee Death Reporting page.

ICE remains committed to ensuring that all those in its custody reside in safe, secure and humane environments. Comprehensive medical care is provided from the moment individuals arrive and throughout the entirety of their stay. All people in ICE custody receive medical, dental and mental health intake screening within 12 hours of arriving at each detention facility; a full health assessment within 14 days of entering ICE custody or arrival at a facility; access to medical appointments, and 24-hour emergency care. At no time during ICE detention is an alien denied emergent care.

Reports of in-custody deaths are posted on the ICE website within two business days, and additional details are made public within 90 days.