Federal agents use pepper spray, rubber bullets on Durango protesters Skip to content News Classical Indie 102.3 KRCC Listen Live Need help? Donate Search Close Primary Navigation Search Politics Environment Justice Arts Music Classical Indie 102.3 Economy Education Denver Southern Colorado Audio &amp; Radio Ways to Listen Shows and Podcasts CPR News Radio Schedule CPR Classical Indie 102.3 Newsletters All Newsletters The Lookout Denverite About CPR Mission &amp; Vision Staff &amp; Hosts Careers Staff DEI Report Recent Awards Press Room Contact Us Ways to support All the ways to give! Login to the Member Center Make a donation Donate your car Corporate sponsorship CPR Shop Close Primary Navigation Politics Money Arts Justice Environment Newsletter Ways to support Federal agents use pepper spray, rubber bullets on Durango protesters By Durango Herald · Oct. 30, 2025, 1:19 pm Share: Josh Stephenson/Special to the Herald Protesters link arms while being pepper sprayed as they try to prevent vehicles from leaving outside an ICE facility Tuesday, October 28, 2025 in Durango Colorado. By Scout Edmondson and Christian Burney | Durango Herald staff writers More than 24 hours of peaceful protest outside the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement field office in Durango culminated Tuesday with pepper spray and rubber bullets being used against protesters. Protesters gathered at the site Monday morning after a man and his two middle school children were arrested that morning on their way to school. Protesters formed a human chain in front of the field office gates Monday night to block federal agents from removing the family from the facility. The chain held through midday Tuesday until masked ICE agents in military-style desert camouflage attacked protesters after ordering them to disperse. The agents flanked protesters from east Sheppard Drive and broke through the ranks to reach the facility gates, deploying mace, firing rubber bullets and dragging away protesters who were seated on the pavement in front of field office entrance. After protesters were cleared from one entrance gate, a black van – reportedly transporting the family – appeared from beyond the barbed wire surrounding the field office and left the facility. Protesters, soaked in pepper spray, wailed as others rushed to their aid with milk, water and saline solutions. “They beat the (expletive) out of us,” said Autumn, a protester who declined to share her last name. “They came here and in under three minutes they’re spraying us. They’re hitting us point-blank in the back of the head with rubber bullets, which is a human rights violation.” She said ICE agents are “illegally doing the bidding of the state” and are complicit in disappearing people and “atrocities against American citizens.” Facilitated release ‘no longer an option’ ICE agents told the Durango Police Department that they attempted to release the children to another parent but were unsuccessful, according to a city news release on Tuesday. Durango officers then offered on multiple occasions to help facilitate the release back to the children, “but were informed that it was no longer an option,” according to the city. On Tuesday, police received a report that one of the children may have been in distress and potentially experiencing abuse, the city said. Officers attempted to conduct a welfare check and to bring food to the family. “Unfortunately, federal agents denied officers entry to the facility,” the city wrote in its release. At the request of Durango Fire Protection District, Durango police helped ensure emergency vehicles could safely come and go from Station No. 1 in Bodo Industrial Park, according to the city. Protesters were double-parked on both sides of the road near the ICE field office. Early morning flash point Organizers said they planned to remain peaceful while delaying ICE efforts to separate the family. Around 1 a.m. Tuesday, Durango police officers arrived to monitor the situation but left a few hours later. Just before 6 a.m. Tuesday, a vehicle without license plates arrived to deliver food to the family, according to the vehicle’s driver. Federal agents then emerged from the building, and a confrontation ensured. Agents threw protesters’ belongings across the road. Protester Francy Stagi said an agent took the phone out of her hand as she recorded, then grabbed her by the hair and threw her to the ground in a choke hold. She was afraid the agent would kick her to death. Other agents attempted to restrain the officer before they all retreated back into the building. Demonstrators called 911, but Stagi said she was uninjured. Stagi, laughing lightly, said she received a parking ticket from DPD. When she reported her assault by ICE agents to local police, officers told her there was nothing they could do about it. “This is (expletive) Nazi Germany. This is Pinochet in Chile,” she said. She said protesters outside the ICE field office had no way of knowing how the children arrested Monday morning were being treated by agents inside. “Maybe they’re yelling at her. Maybe they're pulling her fingernails out one by one. We don’t know,” she said. Gov. Polis: Lack of transparency ‘extremely maddening’ The city said a video taken about 6 a.m. Tuesday showed “an elderly” woman being shoved to the ground by a federal agent. The city said it asked the Colorado Bureau of Investigation for assistance investigating the incident, but as of 5:15 p.m. CBI had not formally decided to investigate the case. “Because the event occurred on federal property, the FBI is also looking into the incident,” the city said. Durango City Councilor Shirley Gonzales attended the protest Tuesday morning. Trembling, she said she had never witnessed anything like the confrontation that unfolded that afternoon. She said the family whose arrest sparked the protest was going through the legal channels to seek asylum, and she’s disappointed to see them being targeted. The city said it is committed to transparency, compassion and the safety of all residents. “We support every individual’s right to peacefully protest and assemble,” Mayor Gilda Yazzie said in a release. “This is a deeply challenging moment for our community.” An ICE spokesman in Denver declined to respond to questions by phone Tuesday afternoon. He said he would only respond to questions by email, but he provided no response to emailed questions as of 8 p.m. Tuesday. In a statement to&nbsp; The Denver Post , Gov. Jared Polis said he was “deeply concerned” about the family’s detention. “The federal government’s lack of transparency about its immigration actions in Durango and the free state of Colorado remains extremely maddening,” he wrote. “The federal government should prioritize apprehending and prosecuting dangerous criminals, no matter where they come from, and keep our communities safe instead of snatching up children and breaking up families.” All night protest Throughout the evening Monday, demonstrators vowed to practice nonviolent resistance against the federal agents. “These community members are willing to put their bodies and their criminal records on the line, and the human chain is the hardest thing for them to get through because in order to get through us, they have to escalate to violence,” said Jay, an organizer who declined to give his last name. “We don’t want to do that, and we will sit here and let them escalate if that’s what they choose to do.” Federal agents were attempting to separate a father and two children despite a pending asylum case, according to an employee with Compañeros: Four Corners Immigrant Resource Center, who declined to be identified. “The official stated they will proceed with processing the family, despite having an open and pending asylum case,” the Compañeros employee said. “I also spoke with the mother, who received a call from one of her children. The children were told they are being moved to Texas, and it appears they will be separated from their father.” The employee also said the family had no pending criminal charges or violations. Demonstrators brought food, coffee, blankets and cardboard signs. They set up a tear gas station stocked with milk, bottled water and saline solution. “We’re saying we stand with our community members, and we’re willing to risk whatever it is that we have to in order to get them back,” Jay said. By 10:30 p.m., some 70 people remained, seated in front of the two entrances to the facility with linked arms. That number dwindled to roughly 50 through the night, but the protesters wrapped themselves in blankets and waited for a sign from either the agents or the family. At 12:47 a.m., several Durango Police Department vehicles arrived on scene to monitor the situation. According to Sgt. Padraic Ingle, they were there to ensure the rights of all parties involved were upheld and that violence did not break out. “We’re just here to make sure that everybody’s safe,” Ingle said. “We love that they are here to exercise their First Amendment right, and so that’s why we’re here. We uphold the Constitution and we uphold the ordinances of our community. So that’s ultimately what we’re doing.” Because tensions were running high, Ingle said, emotions can get carried away and lead to conflict. “We want to make sure that if that does happen, people are still doing it in a way that benefits society, versus tears it down totally,” Ingle said. He said DPD is not involved with ICE operations, and that the department has made no plans with the agency. If violence did break out on either side, he said officers would step in to stop it. City spokesman Tom Sluis said DPD was asked by the Durango Fire Protection District to help ensure emergency vehicles had access to the fire station. At that time, a smaller number of protesters were receptive to the requests of a code enforcement officer, he said. By 5:30 a.m., DPD officers had left the scene. And by 5:50 a.m., an unmarked police vehicle without license plates arrived. ICE agents emerged from the facility and began trying to clear a way for the vehicle to enter. Demonstrators in the human chain remained seated and did not obey the agents’ demands. One agent was throwing chairs and signs across the road and tipped over a propane fire pit demonstrators had set up to keep warm. He also shoved a teenage demonstrator. As he was doing so, demonstrator Anne Stagi began taking video of the agent with her phone. “What would Jesus do?” she repeatedly asked. The agent then took her phone out of her hands and threw it across the road. “I was asking him, ‘what would Jesus do?’ Because they say they're all good Christian nationalists,” Stagi said. Through tears, Stagi said her grandparents lived in Nazi Germany and that the behavior of the Trump administration and ICE reminded her of some of their stories. Brian Rogers, a protester blocking the gate Tuesday, was shot with rubber bullets – once in the neck and again in the back. He lifted his shirt and showed a large welt on his back. He said he was overwhelmed and angry, and ICE didn’t need to take the children in their custody anywhere. “Children being abducted in our community is something I can’t stand,” he said. “I want to try to do what I can to prevent that.” Jay said protesters remained peaceful, despite ICE’s actions. “ICE rolled out of their facility and immediately escalated,” Jay said. “We were sitting here peacefully, blocking their way, and they came out swinging, pushing people around. (They) attacked a person who was exercising their right to film in a public space.” You care. You want to know what is really going on these days, especially in Colorado. We can help you keep up.&nbsp; The Lookout is a free, daily email newsletter with news and happenings from all over Colorado. Sign up here and we will see you in the morning! Popular Posts Immigration ICE agents leave Ace of Spades ‘death cards’ on detained immigrants’ cars Environment Why a climate startup plans to inject liquid manure a mile deep in Weld County News Man killed Saturday by Border Patrol in Minneapolis has parents who live in Colorado Transportation Unseasonably warm weather contributed to increase in Colorado traffic deaths in 2025 News Former Mesa County Clerk Tina Peters involved in prison altercation, Department of Corrections says Latest Stories Local 303 The Best of Local 303 For 2025 By Alisha Sweeney News Colorado Springs councilwoman reprimanded for statements made after colleague walked out of meeting By Briana Heaney Health Transparent gel wound dressing could be game changer to help injured people heal faster By Andrea Dukakis Environment Colorado gets federal approval for new 10-year wildlife conservation plan By Haylee May Sign Up For Our Newsletters It takes a good day’s drive to cover Colorado, but we’ll help you do it in a few minutes. Our newsletters bring you a closer look at the stories that affect you and the music that inspires you. Get A Newsletter From The Climate Team Sign Up For The Lookout Sign Up For The Quotie Monthly Get The Inside Track On Denver Music Classical Music Playlists And More Upcoming Events Indie 102.3’s January Local 303 Meetup feat: Animal Electricity 6:30pm Skylark Lounge Jan 26 Turn the Page with Colorado Matters and Josh Blue 7:00pm Dairy Arts Center Feb 12 Save the Date: Indie 102.3’s 303 Day 5:00pm Number Thirty Eight Mar 03 Listen to a Colorado Postcard Colorado Postcards are snapshots of our colorful state in sound. They give brief insights into our people and places, our flora and fauna, and our past and present, from every corner of Colorado. Listen now. News That Matters, Delivered To Your Inbox About Us Our Mission Staff and Hosts Careers at CPR General Contest Rules FCC Applications &amp; Files Contact Contact Us Member Support Connect With CPR Opt Out of Targeted Advertising Listen Ways to Listen Listening Help On-Air Schedule Support Make a Donation Donate Your Car Become a Sponsor Corporate Supporters CPR Shop © 2026 Colorado Public Radio. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy . 0:00/0:00