Seven Immigrants Die in ICE Custody in December, Marking Deadliest Month This Year - NOTUS — News of the United States Notus Main Navigation Show menu Close menu New! On NOTUS Podcast NOTUS Perspectives Newsletter Subscribe for free Past Newsletters Government Donald Trump White House Courts Congress Senate House Democrats Republicans States Alabama Arizona California Florida Georgia Illinois Louisiana Maine Michigan Mississippi Missouri New Jersey New York North Carolina Ohio Oklahoma Pennsylvania Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Wisconsin Topics 2025 Election 2026 Election Climate Defense Economy Education Foreign Policy Health &amp; Science Immigration Money Policy Technology Trade &amp; Tariffs U.S. News Who Are We? About NOTUS™ Events Work for us Press Releases Syndication Washington Bureau Initiative SPOTUS X (Twitter) Bluesky LinkedIn Instagram TikTok YouTube My Account Sign up / Log in Sign up / Log in Close Auth Dialog Sign up Get free access to NOTUS with your email. Already have an account? Sign in Email address Create an account Or Sign in with Google Sign in with Microsoft Sign in with Apple Sign in with X This site is protected by reCAPTCHA, and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. By&nbsp;continuing on NOTUS, you agree to its Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Sign in Log into your free account with your email. Don’t have one? Sign up Email address Continue Or Sign in with Google Sign in with Microsoft Sign in with Apple Sign in with X This site is protected by reCAPTCHA, and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. By&nbsp;continuing on NOTUS, you agree to its Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Check your email for a one-time code. We sent a 4-digit code to . Enter the pin to confirm your account. Need another confirmation email? Resend code . Resend code . One time password Sign in New code will be available in 1:00 Back to all login options . Let’s try this again. We encountered an error with the passcode sent to . Please reenter your email. Email address Continue Back to all login options . Listen to On NOTUS: David Valadao talks his relationships in Congress and losing in 2018. Immigration Seven Immigrants Die in ICE Custody in December, Marking Deadliest Month This Year Two people died in detention centers, and five more died after being taken to hospitals. The Delaney Hall Detention Facility in Newark, New Jersey. Stefan Jeremiah/AP By Jackie Llanos December 23, 2025 11:16 AM Email LinkedIn Twitter Copy Link copied Seven people died in Immigration and Customs Enforcement custody this month — four of them within a four-day span — making it the deadliest month for detainees in President Donald Trump’s second term. This year had the most deaths in immigrant detention since 2004. The uptick in deaths comes as ICE wraps up the year with a record high of more than 68,000 people in detention, according to the agency’s detention statistics. In notifications of detainees’ deaths, ICE stated two of the men — Fouad Saeed Abdulkadir, a 46-year-old from Eritrea who had been detained for 215 days, and Nenko Stanev Gantchev, a 56-year-old from Bulgaria — died in processing centers. An additional five died in hospitals. One of them, 39-year-old Dalvin Francisco Rodriguez from Nicaragua, was found without a pulse at a Pennsylvania detention center on Dec. 4 and was pronounced dead 10 days later. The deaths in quick succession prompted criticism from Democratic lawmakers and advocacy groups, who questioned the treatment of immigrants at the facilities. Democratic Rep. Veronica Escobar sent a letter to Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem and acting ICE Director Todd Lyons pressing the agency heads over conditions at Camp East Montana , where immigrants are housed in tents, following the first reported detainee death. Escobar, who represents the district where the largest detention center is located, referred to the deaths in ICE custody as heartbreaking in a statement to NOTUS. “For the billions of taxpayer dollars that are being spent, the conditions at detention centers do not meet minimum federal standards for care of human beings,” she said. “Especially with our recent legal win against the Trump administration to conduct true oversight at detention centers, my Democratic colleagues and I will continue to hold the administration accountable.” ICE did not respond to a request for comment on the deaths in detention this month, but has stated in the past that the rate of deaths is relatively low compared to the number of people in its custody. In a Dec. 10 press release notifying the death of Shiraz Fatehali Sachwani, a 48-year-old from Pakistan, the agency stated that in-custody deaths in the past year averaged less than 1%. Throughout the year, detainees, their families, attorneys, civil rights organizations and Congress members have denounced the lack of medical attention immigrants get in detention. Federal judges have ordered ICE to improve detention conditions in Illinois , New York and California . Immigrant rights advocates have also denounced ICE’s handling of illness and deaths. Lucía Pedro Juan, the wife of Francisco Gaspar-Andres, 48, told the El Paso Times immigration officers didn’t allow her to see him before she was deported to Guatemala. The couple lived together in Florida for nearly two decades. Pedro Juan and Gaspar-Andres were both detained at Camp East Montana, but she found out her husband was taken to a local hospital from her daughter, Pedro Juan said. Gaspar-Andres died of liver and kidney failure, according to the agency’s notification of his death. Democratic lawmakers have sought to maintain oversight of detention facilities given DHS cuts of staff working on oversight . Congress members regained unrestricted access last week to ICE detention centers after U.S. District Judge Jia Cobb blocked the Trump administration from enforcing policies that stopped them from conducting oversight visits. On Tuesday, Rep. LaMonica McIver of New Jersey visited Delaney Hall detention facility for oversight after the death of Jean Wilson Brutus, a 41-year-old from Haiti who died in the center earlier this month. It was her first visit there since what her lawyers say is a politically motivated prosecution by the Trump administration, which alleges she assaulted immigration officers during a protest at Delaney Hall in May. The 32 deaths announced by ICE this year include Norlan Guzman-Fuentes, 37, and Miguel Angel Garcia-Hernandez, 31, who were shot when a sniper opened fire at a Dallas ICE facility. In Norfolk, Virginia, Jose Castro-Rivera, a 25-year-old from Honduras, died after a vehicle struck him while he fled from immigration officials. Don’t miss the stories shaping Washington. Sign up for our free daily newsletter by National Politics Reporter Evan McMorris-Santoro & White House Correspondent Jasmine Wright Email address Sign Up Or continue with Sign in with Google Sign in with Microsoft Sign in with Apple Sign in with X This site is protected by reCAPTCHA, and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. By&nbsp;continuing on NOTUS, you agree to its Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Maybe Later Sign in Log into your free account with your email. Don’t have one? Sign up Email address Continue Or continue with Sign in with Google Sign in with Microsoft Sign in with Apple Sign in with X Check your email for a one-time code. We sent a 4-digit code to . Enter the pin to confirm your account. Need another confirmation email? Resend code . Resend code . One time password Sign in New code will be available in 1:00 Back to all login options . Let’s try this again. We encountered an error with the passcode sent to . Please reenter your email. Email address Continue Back to all login options . You’re on the list! Thank you for reading NOTUS. You can manage your subscriptions from the My Account page . New on NOTUS U.S. News : Former Trail Blazers Star Launches Bid for Oregon Governor Climate &amp; Environment : The Weekend’s Storms Hit Southern States the Hardest. State Lawmakers Wonder if They Can Rely on FEMA. Courts : Fight Over Evidence From Minneapolis Shooting Kicks Off in Federal Court Immigration : Minnesotans Mourn Pretti’s Death and Call for Local Law Enforcement to Step Up Immigration : Minneapolis Mayor Says Some Federal Agents Are Leaving His City Welcome back to NOTUS! Update your profile and manage your newsletter subscriptions in My Account. Update Account Close About NOTUS™ Newsletters NOTUS Perspectives RSS Feed Work for us Press Releases Support FAQ Contact us Terms of Use Privacy Policy © 2026 NOTUS