Georgia Army Veteran Stuck in ICE Detention Center | Military.com Profile Profile Subscriptions Log out News News Home Army Navy Air Force Marine Corps Coast Guard Space Force Military Podcasts Opinion Videos Benefits Benefits Home Military Pay and Money GI Bill Veteran Health Care Tricare VA Loans Insurance Retirement VA eBenefits Veteran Jobs Veteran Job Search Upload Your Resume Veteran Employment Project Vet Friendly Employers Career Advice Military Life Military Life Home Money Off Duty Fitness Military Trivia Game Veterans Day Spouse &amp; Family Deployment Military History Discounts Discounts Home Featured Discounts Veterans Day Restaurant Discounts Dining Travel Retail Insurance Services Auto Electronics Join the Military Join the Military Home ASVAB Contact a Recruiter Military Fitness Benefits Login Sign up Profile Subscriptions Log out Sign up GO Sign up Profile Profile Subscriptions Log out News News Home Army Navy Air Force Marine Corps Coast Guard Space Force Military Podcasts Opinion Videos Benefits Benefits Home Military Pay and Money GI Bill Veteran Health Care Tricare VA Loans Insurance Retirement VA eBenefits Veteran Jobs Veteran Job Search Upload Your Resume Veteran Employment Project Vet Friendly Employers Career Advice Military Life Military Life Home Money Off Duty Fitness Military Trivia Game Veterans Day Spouse &amp; Family Deployment Military History Discounts Discounts Home Featured Discounts Veterans Day Restaurant Discounts Dining Travel Retail Insurance Services Auto Electronics Join the Military Join the Military Home ASVAB Contact a Recruiter Military Fitness Benefits Military News Investigations and Features Georgia Army Veteran Stuck in ICE Detention Center Godfrey Wade with two of his three grandchildren. (Photo from 11Alive News) Military.com | By Kevin Damask Published December 09, 2025 at 10:03am ET As the Trump administration’s crackdown on illegal immigration continues to ensnare some U.S. military veterans, one case in Georgia is grabbing headlines.&nbsp; Godfrey Wade, an Army veteran who has lived in the country for 52 years, has spent the past three months in the Stewart Detention Center in Lumpkin, Georgia. Wade emigrated to the U.S. as a young teenager and joined the Army a few years later. &nbsp; He was taken into custody by ICE in September after police stopped his car for failure to use a turn signal. The veteran was found not to have a current driver’s license, and police discovered he was not a properly documented citizen.&nbsp; The footage of Wade being taken into custody was captured on his fiancée, April Watkins's, phone.&nbsp; “He wasn't born in this country, and still, he loves this country enough that he signed up to serve it,” Watkins told 11Alive News in Atlanta. “Fifty years later, when he needs this country, this country is turning its back on him.” Tried to Become a Citizen&nbsp; In the mid-1970s, Wade signed up for the Army and was assigned to the 7th Infantry Division. Stationed in Aschaffenburg, Germany, he earned both good conduct and wartime service medals.&nbsp; Wade left the Army, obtained multiple degrees, and enjoyed a varied career as a fashion designer, master tailor, tennis coach and chef. He was preparing food at the Georgia Capitol Café at the time of his arrest.&nbsp; However, Department of Homeland Security Assistant Secretary Tricia McLaughlin claims Wade has had brushes with the law in the past.&nbsp; "His criminal history includes domestic assault, criminal trespass, reckless conduct, deposit account fraud, violation of probation, multiple arrests for driving on a suspended license," McLaughlin told Newsweek . "In 2014, an immigration judge ordered him removed after he failed to show up for his immigration hearing. Both Wade and his fiancée said they were working on getting legal citizenship before he was detained.&nbsp; Army veteran Godfrey Wade, left, at his daughter's college graduation. (Photo from Wade family) “We had an attorney, but it’s a very expensive endeavor; the cost is astronomical,” Watkins said. “Still, he did make the effort. We did a lot of things to make sure this day would not come, and yet here we are.”&nbsp; Sharing his story from the detention center by phone, Wade never believed that one day he could be deported.&nbsp; “For 52 years I’ve lived in this country and raised my children, worked hard, paid my taxes,” he said. “A lot of the processes of immigration I didn't know about. I'm learning more while I’m in here.”&nbsp; Detention Conditions Poor&nbsp; After he came to the detention center, Wade, 65, said he slept on a makeshift bed on the floor for almost two weeks due to overcrowding. “We don’t have any bunk space,” he said. “We’re given what we call boats, and those are placed on the floor with a two-inch mat.”&nbsp; Rudimentary bedding hasn’t even been the worst part. Wade said the facility has two working urinals for 80 detainees. The veteran also must dodge flowing sewage water on the ground as he gets in line to urinate.&nbsp; In reporting this story, 11Alive said it obtained records from the Office of Detention Oversight (ODO), which listed 12 deficiencies at the detention center at the agency’s last inspection. The center’s black marks include health and safety issues, phone access, food service, use of force and others.&nbsp; Agency requirements also state all detention facilities should have a 12-to-1 detainee-to-toilet ratio, but the Stewart Detention Center is way above that quota.&nbsp; The news station stated it has tried to get comments from CoreCivic, the contractor that operates the facility, but has not heard back as of Dec. 8.&nbsp; Godfrey Wade walks with two of his grandkids. (Photo from Wade family) Legal Protection Status&nbsp; In previous years, undocumented veterans had some legal protections safeguarding them from being deported. A 2022 directive from the Biden administration informed ICE agents to consider veteran status before deportation, if they didn’t have violent criminal backgrounds.&nbsp; Concerned about veterans getting deported, more than 60 Democratic Congressmembers sent a letter to federal authorities imploring them to provide documentation of all veterans in the U.S. who have been deported or detained in 2025. The Sept. 16 deadline came and went without a list.&nbsp; A memo obtained by 11Alive from Rep. Hank Johnson from Georgia from the Department of Defense stated it wouldn’t be able to meet the September deadline but expected to have a list ready by Oct. 17.&nbsp; That deadline was blown, too. “Senator [Elizabeth] Warren’s office has been following up every two weeks with no response,” said a spokesperson for Rep. Johnson.&nbsp; Detainment Hard on Family&nbsp; Wade’s detainment has been especially difficult for his family, who can only see him sporadically. The Army veteran has six children and three grandchildren. &nbsp;Wade’s daughter, Christian, said visiting him in a detainment facility is sometimes more than she can bear.&nbsp; “It is very traumatic,” she said. “He doesn’t deserve this, what he’s experiencing right now.” Christian’s children, ages 4 and 6, are very close to their grandfather.&nbsp; “It’s been hard trying to communicate why granddad is not available,” she said. “We typically see him every weekend. He doesn’t want them to see him behind that plexiglass. He doesn’t want them to see what he looks like.”&nbsp; Undocumented citizen or not, Emmanuela, Wade’s youngest child, said the thought of her dad being labeled a criminal is hard to comprehend. &nbsp;&nbsp; “For my first talent show, I was doing ‘Twinkle Twinkle Little Star,’ and he created a kimono for me,” she said. “There were stars all alongside the sleeves. He was always supportive of our aspirations and our dreams.”&nbsp; Army veteran Godfrey Wade with his children when they were young. (Photo from Wade family) Still Believes in Country&nbsp; Despite the pain and confusion of the past few months, Wade bears no hard feelings toward the nation he served. “If I didn’t believe this country is still great, I wouldn’t want to stay here,” he said. “I shed my blood for this country. I can live with myself if I just have a day in court so somebody can hear my story.” But that process could be slow-moving, as Wade indicated he wasn’t given a case agent for almost two months. He’s still waiting to plead his case in front of a judge. &nbsp; “I was told through my attorney that they’re waiting for a deportation,” Wade said. “I haven’t gone to see a judge. They’re saying that my situation is final.” Wade was also told he had been mailed a notice of hearing back in 2014, but it went to the wrong address.&nbsp; Watkins said she hasn’t even thought about the possibility of Wade being sent back to Jamaica.&nbsp; “Will we even get to say goodbye, or is it just gonna be a phone call and then the next thing you know, he’s in Jamaica?”&nbsp; Watkins does hope her fiancé's difficult situation will spark a change to restore protections for non-citizen veterans. &nbsp; “If you served this country, you deserve a chance to stay in this country,” she said. “That is the hope for not only him but for any veteran who sits in a detention center. Look at the service that they gave this country and take that into consideration.”&nbsp; Editor's note: This story was updated on Dec. 19 at 4:52 p.m. with comments from the Department of Homeland Security concerning Wade's arrest.&nbsp; Related Topics: Immigration &amp; Citizenship Veterans Army Mental Health and Wellness By Kevin Damask About Kevin Damask&nbsp; Kevin Damask is a content writer for Military.com who writes articles covering human interest stories about veterans. Kevin also interviews veterans and writes Q&amp;A and profile pieces reflecting on their military experiences and life after service.&nbsp; Read Full Bio &copy; Copyright 2026 Military.com. All rights reserved. This article may not be republished, rebroadcast, rewritten or otherwise distributed without written permission. To reprint or license this article or any content from Military.com, please submit your request here . You May Also Like DePaul Student Unlocks Power of AI to Help Fellow Veterans Battling Homelessness Army veteran Chad King, having faced housing uncertainty, is hoping to help fellow veterans with a new AI tool to find... A U-Boat Killed 763 American Soldiers on Christmas Eve in 1944. The Army Kept It Secret for 50 Years Howard woke up around midnight in a hospital in Cherbourg, France. He was among the lucky ones. On that Christmas Eve in 1944... British War Hero Becomes 29th Rifles Regiment Soldier to Die from Suicide Andrew Borthwick, a former British Army soldier, is another combat veteran to die from suicide from The Rifles. Army Corps of Engineers Relieves Little Rock District Commander Amid Leadership Accountability Push The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) has removed the commander of its Little Rock District, citing a loss of confidence... Military News Investigations and Features Army Navy Air Force Marine Corps Coast Guard Space Force Military Opinion Select Service Army Marines Navy Air Force National Guard Coast Guard Space Force Spouse Login Army My Profile Army Home Page Navy My Profile Navy Home Page Air Force My Profile Air Force Home Page Marines My Profile Marines Home Page Coast Guard My Profile Coast Guard Home Page Space Force My Profile Space Force Home Page National Guard My Profile National Guard Home Page Spouse My Profile Spouse Home Page &nbsp; My Profile News Home Page Most Popular Military News Navy Commodore Relieved of Duties, First In Role To Lose Job in 2026 The relieved commodore lost the &quot;trust and confidence&quot; of superiors, will retain a staff position. This Marine Married Chesty Puller’s Daughter and Was Recommended for the Medal of Honor at Khe Sanh In 1967, Vietnam, Capt. Bill Dabney chose the Marine unit closest to the enemy—an instinct that soon put him and his men at... Pentagon Overhauls Military Moving System After Years of Family Complaints The Pentagon is overhauling its broken military moving system to centralize control, modernize technology and restore trust... The Last Living Witness to Lincoln’s Assassination Told His Story on a 1950s Game Show Samuel J. Seymour was just five years old when he sat in the balcony at Ford’s Theatre on April 14, 1865, and heard the... 2026 Military Pay Charts Military service members will receive a 3.8% pay raise in 2026. Some senior officers may receive smaller percentages. Latest Benefits Info Feb. 1 Is the Deadline to Apply for a 2026 Tillman Foundation Scholarship Military Spouses: Here’s What to Remember About Filing State Taxes Overview: MILITARY STAR Card 4 Year-End Money Deadlines Veterans Can&#039;t Afford to Miss VA&#039;s AI Tools Lack Patient Safety Oversight, Watchdog Warns View more More Military Headlines After Military Separation, How to Truly Achieve Work-Life Balance Over the 16 years I’ve worked in the military transition space, service members and military spouses have consistently... US Aircraft Carrier Arrives in the Middle East as Tensions With Iran Remain High The aircraft carrier USS Abraham Lincoln and three accompanying warships have arrived in the Middle East. A Workout for Days When You Have Only 20-30 Minutes to Train With a well structured workout template that incorporates dynamic warmups, strength training and cardio options, you can... IRS: Don’t Report $1,776 &#039;Warrior Dividend&#039; on Your Tax Return The “Warrior Dividend” payments of $1,776 made to military service members in December 2025 definitely won’t be subject to... Trump Administration Invests in Another US Rare Earth Miner to Loosen China’s Grip on Supply The U.S. is taking a minority stake in an Oklahoma rare earth miner, the latest government investment in the sector as it... View more Army A U-Boat Killed 763 American Soldiers on Christmas Eve in 1944. The Army Kept It Secret for 50 Years DePaul Student Unlocks Power of AI to Help Fellow Veterans Battling Homelessness Army Corps of Engineers Relieves Little Rock District Commander Amid Leadership Accountability Push View more Air Force Iran&#039;s Revolutionary Guard Commander Warns the US, Says His Force Has its &#039;Finger on the Trigger&#039; Irish Lawmaker Wants Legislation Requiring US Military Aircraft Inspections Pentagon Brushes Off Request to Understand How Wind Turbines Threaten National Security View more Navy US Aircraft Carrier Arrives in the Middle East as Tensions With Iran Remain High Yemen Rebels Threaten New Red Sea Attack as US Aircraft Carrier Heads Toward Iran Navy Commodore Relieved of Duties, First In Role To Lose Job in 2026 View more Military Benefits Updates Military Spouses: Here’s What to Remember About Filing State Taxes VA&#039;s AI Tools Lack Patient Safety Oversight, Watchdog Warns ‘Sheepdog’ Turns Veteran Trauma into a Mission of Hope View more Marine Corps This Marine Married Chesty Puller’s Daughter and Was Recommended for the Medal of Honor at Khe Sanh ‘Combat Comedian’ Boosts Marine Corps Morale Through Laughter The Forgotten Army Soldiers That Fought Alongside the Marines at Belleau Wood View more Coast Guard Coast Guard Battles Winter Ice on Great Lakes Station South Padre Island Receives Record $200M Facelift From Coast Guard New US Coast Guard Commandant Kevin Lunday Sworn In: &#039;Nation Will Prevail&#039; View more Entertainment The Last Living Witness to Lincoln’s Assassination Told His Story on a 1950s Game Show Why the New Game of Thrones Spinoff Takes Place in Westeros’ Rare Moment of Peace CBS News Considers Cutting Gayle King’s Role and Salary Amid Major Leadership Shake-Up View more GO Sign up Profile Profile Subscriptions Log out News News Home Army Navy Air Force Marine Corps Coast Guard Space Force Military Podcasts Opinion Videos Benefits Benefits Home Military Pay and Money GI Bill Veteran Health Care Tricare VA Loans Insurance Retirement VA eBenefits Veteran Jobs Veteran Job Search Upload Your Resume Veteran Employment Project Vet Friendly Employers Career Advice Military Life Military Life Home Money Off Duty Fitness Military Trivia Game Veterans Day Spouse &amp; Family Deployment Military History Discounts Discounts Home Featured Discounts Veterans Day Restaurant Discounts Dining Travel Retail Insurance Services Auto Electronics Join the Military Join the Military Home ASVAB Contact a Recruiter Military Fitness Benefits Military.com Network Air Force Army Coast Guard Marine Corps National Guard Navy Space Force About Military.com About Us &amp; Press Room RSS Advertise with Us Reprints &amp; Permissions Subscriptions User Agreement Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Site Map Military &amp; Veteran Journalism Fund Need customer support? Visit our Customer Support center for solutions or to contact us. Customer Support © 2026 Military.com AdChoices