US: Nationwide unrest over ICE raids June 13, 2025 Read Ecopy Circulation Advertise Careers About Us Contact Us ‌ Bharat Assam Bihar Chhattisgarh Jharkhand Maharashtra View All States World Asia Europe North America South America Africa Australia Global Commons Editorial International Opinion Op Sindoor More Analysis Sports Defence RSS in News Politics Business Economy Culture Special Report Sci &amp; Tech Entertainment G20 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav Vocal4Local Web Stories Education Employment Books Interviews Travel Law Health Obituary Podcast MAGAZINE ‌ Bharat Assam Bihar Chhattisgarh Jharkhand Maharashtra View All States World Asia Europe North America South America Africa Australia Global Commons Editorial International Opinion Op Sindoor More Analysis Sports Defence RSS in News Politics Business Economy Culture Special Report Sci &amp; Tech Entertainment G20 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav Vocal4Local Web Stories Education Employment Books Interviews Travel Law Health Obituary Podcast Home Bharat World Operation Sindoor Editorial Analysis Opinion Culture Defence International Edition RSS in News Magazine Read Ecopy Organiser Weekly is Hiring! Home International Edition News US: Nationwide unrest over ICE raids as protests spread to major cities, sparking clashes and arrests Anti-immigration raid protests that began in Los Angeles have rapidly spread across major cities in the United States. Demonstrators are voicing opposition to recent ICE operations and the broader immigration policies of the Trump administration. Clashes with law enforcement, arrests, and National Guard deployments have marked the escalating unrest by WEB DESK Jun 13, 2025, 12:01 pm IST in News , World , International Edition Unrest spreads across the USA as the Trump administration intensifies raids Facebook Twitter WhatsApp Telegram Email Anti-immigration raid protests that began in Los Angeles have rapidly spread to cities across the United States. Demonstrators in major urban centres including New York, Atlanta, Chicago, Philadelphia, Denver, Seattle, San Francisco, and Washington, D.C. have taken to the streets opposing US Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) operations. New York, Chicago &amp; Philadelphia In New York City, protesters clashed with police as thousands rallied against ICE raids and in solidarity with demonstrations in Los Angeles. Several people were taken into custody, with some remaining on city streets late into the night. Demonstrators gathered at Foley Square and also conducted a sit-in outside Trump Tower, resulting in at least 24 arrests. 🚨🚨🚨 #USA_WAR_ON_ILLEGAL_IMMIGRANTS 🇺🇸 #NewYork 🇺🇸 Hundreds demonstrate in front of the ICE Department in New York🇺🇸 to protest anti-Trump campaign against the immigrants and demand the transfer of the Immigration Department outside the city pic.twitter.com/2oqziztz80 &mdash; SIMPLY_ME😎 (@TOUNESBELALB) June 10, 2025 Chicago saw thousands gather in the Loop, beginning at Federal Plaza. Protesters marched through downtown, carrying bilingual signs demanding ICE leave the city and calling for family unity. An incident occurred when a car sped through the crowd, though no injuries were reported. Bus services in the Loop were suspended, and several arrests were made throughout the day. Read More: Operation Rising Lion: Israel targets Iran, attacked Tehran with missiles as a preemptive strike In Philadelphia, around 150 protesters marched from the Federal Detention Center to ICE headquarters. Police reported the protest disrupted traffic and endangered public safety. Fifteen people were arrested, with one facing an aggravated assault charge on a police officer. The rest were charged with disorderly conduct. Two officers and two arrested women sustained minor injuries. NYPD moves in on group of anti-ICE protesters tonight in Manhattan. Handful of arrests tonight &#8211; far cry from 86 last night. Non-violent protest &#8211; water bottles thrown, blocking traffic and slurs. pic.twitter.com/ISJYucmeMF &mdash; Bryan Llenas (@BryanLlenas) June 12, 2025 Denver, Texas &amp; Seattle Denver experienced significant unrest on Tuesday night. After a peaceful early evening protest at the Colorado State Capitol, the demonstration turned chaotic. Police blocked access to Interstate 25 as rocks and bottles were reportedly thrown at officers near Coors Field. Smoke was seen in videos circulating online, although police confirmed no tear gas was used. One person was detained. In Texas, Governor Greg Abbott deployed the National Guard ahead of planned protests in San Antonio and other cities. In Austin, police fired tear gas and pepper balls during a standoff with demonstrators. A protest in Dallas lasted for several hours on a city bridge before being declared an unlawful assembly. Protesters were warned to disperse, and one arrest was reported after officers moved in. Holy F&#39;ck 🔥 ICE RAIDS A PROTEST IN DENVER, Raise your hand ✋️ if this is exactly what you voted for pic.twitter.com/FelCfdNoZv &mdash; @Chicago1Ray 🇺🇸 (@Chicago1Ray) April 12, 2025 Seattle’s protest involved about 50 people outside the downtown immigration court. Initially peaceful, the demonstration turned tense as scooters were placed in front of entryways. Legal observers and media were denied access to the normally public hearings. Protesters voiced opposition to ICE in their community and expressed solidarity with those in Los Angeles. Santa Ana, Boston &amp; Washington Santa Ana, near Los Angeles, remained tense on Tuesday morning. Armored vehicles blocked roads near the Civic Center, where ICE and various agencies have offices. Workers cleaned up broken glass and profane graffiti from earlier protests, while National Guard officers patrolled the area. BREAKING 🚨 Finally Multiple Anti ICE Rioters in Santa Ana California (NOT LA) are being slammed to the ground by police and ARRESTED I VOTED FOR THIS 🔥 pic.twitter.com/QMpGFs5dI1 &mdash; MAGA Voice (@MAGAVoice) June 10, 2025 Boston&#8217;s City Hall Plaza hosted hundreds of demonstrators protesting the arrest of union leader David Huerta during the L.A. raids. Protesters held signs supporting immigrants and demanded Huerta’s release. In Washington, D.C., several unions marched past the Department of Justice, demanding the release of Huerta and an end to ICE raids. U.S. Representative Pramila Jayapal participated, criticising the use of tear gas and rubber bullets on peaceful demonstrators. JUST IN: This crowd in Spokane Washington was just tear gassed and they are not budging. They are blocking the road and won’t let an ICE transport vehicle with illegal aliens leave. ARREST THEM!! pic.twitter.com/d6OTMJntd9 &mdash; AmericanPapaBear (@AmericaPapaBear) June 12, 2025 San Francisco, Omaha &amp; Nebraska San Francisco experienced a second straight day of protests on Monday, following mass arrests on Sunday. While Monday&#8217;s protests were mostly peaceful, police reported several arrests related to vandalism. Mayor Daniel Lurie reaffirmed support for peaceful demonstrations but condemned violent actions. In Omaha, Nebraska, a spontaneous rally was held following immigration raids at a local meat-packing plant. The rapid expansion of protests indicates continued nationwide conspiracy against immigration raids and ICE operations. Topics: Los Angeles Violence National Guard ICE Raids Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) operations. Share Tweet Send Share Send Subscribe Organiser YouTube Channel Previous News Backdoor Reservations in Bengal: 86 per cent of new OBC additions are Muslims – Mamata’s anti-Hindu conspiracy exposed Related News US: Trump administration intensifies crackdown on illegal immigration in Los Angeles, 400 arrests made Los Angeles Violence: 16 incidents of unrest &#8211; The June 2025 timeline US: Trump deploys 700 Marines in Los Angeles to protect federal personnel and property amid deepening unrest &#038; loot LA Violence: Trump calls democrat-backed immigration protests as &#8216;radical left&#8217;; Mulls deploying marines Load More Comments The comments posted here/below/in the given space are not on behalf of Organiser . The person posting the comment will be in sole ownership of its responsibility. According to the central government's IT rules, obscene or offensive statement made against a person, religion, community or nation is a punishable offense, and legal action would be taken against people who indulge in such activities. Latest News US: Nationwide unrest over ICE raids as protests spread to major cities, sparking clashes and arrests Backdoor Reservations in Bengal: 86 per cent of new OBC additions are Muslims – Mamata’s anti-Hindu conspiracy exposed Redrawing the poverty map: India cuts extreme poverty from 16.2 to 2.3 per cent, says World Bank report Air India 171 Plane Crash: PM Modi meets with injured admitted at Ahmedabad Civil Hospital Odisha: Man dies after being attacked by Islamists over cattle smuggling row; Internet services suspended Lal Salam echoes in Srinagar: CPM demands restoration of Article 370, calls for talks with Pakistan ‘A miracle in tragedy’: The sole survivor of the Air India crash leaves India and the internet in awe Ahmedabad plane crash: Broken tables, half-eaten meals capture horror inside doctors&#8217; hostel at BJ Medical College Israel launches ‘Operation Rising Lion’: Iranian Revolutionary Guards Chief Hossein Salami reportedly killed Operation Rising Lion: Israel targets Iran, attacked Tehran with missiles as a preemptive strike Privacy Terms Cookie Policy Refund and Cancellation Delivery and Shipping © Bharat Prakashan (Delhi) Limited . Tech-enabled by Ananthapuri Technologies Home Search Organiser Bharat Assam Bihar Chhattisgarh Jharkhand Maharashtra View All States World Asia Africa North America South America Europe Australia Global Commons Editorial Operation Sindoor Opinion Analysis Defence Culture Sports Business RSS in News Entertainment More .. Sci &amp; Tech Vocal4Local Special Report Education Employment Books Interviews Travel Health Politics Law Economy Obituary Podcast Subscribe Magazine Read Ecopy Advertise Circulation Careers About Us Contact Us Policies &#038; Terms Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Refund and Cancellation Terms of Use © Bharat Prakashan (Delhi) Limited . Tech-enabled by Ananthapuri Technologies