Title: Residents hit with tear gas and flash bangs as anger grows in aftermath of latest federal shooting
Authors: Izzy Canizares
Published: 2026-01-24 23:53:30+00:00

Videos that quickly began to circulate show Pretti pinned on the ground, with officers on top of him, kicking him before shots ring out and he is seen motionless on the ground.

The killing of Alex Pretti by a Border Patrol agent in Minneapolis Saturday morning was followed by clashes between federal officers and residents who gathered around the scene of the shooting.

There were chaotic scenes in the blocks surrounding Nicollet Avenue South and East 26th Street in the hours that followed Pretti's shooting, with federal agents who remained on the scene deploying flash bangs, tear gas and pepper spray at people protesting the latest killing by immigration agents.

There were a number of arrests made as well, with theDepartment of Homeland Security sharing images of a border agent who had the tip of his finger bitten off, allegedly by a protester.

Pretti, 37, was shot multiple times in front of Glam Doll Donuts at around 9 a.m. He has been working as a nurse since 2021 and most recently worked at the Minneapolis VA hospital as an ICU nurse.

Videos that quickly began to circulate show Pretti pinned on the ground, with officers on top of him, kicking him before one shot rings out, followed by almost a dozen more shots after Pretti collapses to the ground.

Izzy Canizares

The shooting has left a community already mourning the loss of Renee Good, who was shot earlier this month, with members of the community protesting at the scene Saturday outraged at the violence that has been brought to their streets.

“As I was walking up, there were ridiculous explosions,” resident Carol Perkil said. “I'm from the country, and you don't hear those noises. You don’t hear those noises in this city. We had peace in Minneapolis. It wasn't perfect, but nowhere is. And since the Border Patrol has invaded us, they have endangered countless lives.”

"I'm sick of this shit. I've never felt unsafe in this city until ICE came here. This is an authoritarian government that is terrorizing us," said Minneapolis resident Shawn, who did not wish to give his last name, told Bring Me The News.

Izzy Canizares

Around 200 people took to the streets to demand justice for Pretti in the aftermath of the shooting, and they were met with armored cars and flashbangs thrown at those attempting to barricade the streets, and chemical irritants. Clouds of smoke covered the area for blocks, including residential and commercial streets.

From Pillsbury Avenue to Nicollet Avenue, MPD and state troopers have blocked off roads, as crowds continue growing at the original scene, where residents created barricades despite the onslaught of chemical irritants fired into the streets.

Multiple residents were injured, and at least two were detained while Bring Me The News was on the ground.

At one point, multiple members of the press were in an alley near where the barricade was forming when ICE officers threw chemical irritants into the alley. The agents began walking up towards the alley, attempting to apprehend someone, but left when they saw many of the people there were press.

Izzy Canizares

“We just got attacked by a bunch of tear gas and concussion grenades, for peacefully protesting after they shot another one of our citizens, and we're f***** fed up with it,” resident Bryan Ebert said right after a round of flashbangs and chemical irritants were deployed. "Our city is beautiful, and it was safe before they were here. We do not need them here. We do not consent to them being here."

Videos on the ground show multiple different forms of chemical irritants being deployed against protesters, including one green smoking gas, which is typically referred to as Adamsite, an arsenic-based chemical agent.

Rubber bullets were deployed and left scattered around the streets. Photos taken by residents also show multiple used teargas containers that were deployed against people attempting to barricade the streets. National Guard assistance has been requested at the Whipple building and in the Whittier neighborhood.

Izzy Canizares

“There are 3,000 unaccountable secret police. We have no recourse when they commit atrocities and crimes against us, and we will not stand for it,” Ebert said. “The people will survive, and we will thrive without them. They need to get out of Minneapolis, get out of Minnesota, and get out of this country.”

On Saturday evening, the City of Minneapolis said that traffic will be limited in the blocks around the shooting site.