NYC protests latest: Could the National Guard be deployed? | FOX 5 New York Watch Live News Weather Good Day Good Night Contests More Watch Live Expand / Collapse search ☰ Search site News Local NYC News New York State News National News Politics Crime &amp; Public Safety Entertainment Unusual Science Sports Seen on TV FOX News Sunday Newsletters Watch Live Weather Forecast Closings Weather Alerts Traffic Travel News FOX 5 NY Weather App FOX Weather Good Day New York Good Day Cafe Good Day Street Talk Health Things to Do Watch Live About Us How To Stream Meet The Team FOX 5 TV Schedule FOX Shows Get Our Apps Job Opportunities Public Affairs Contact Us Contests FCC Public File FCC Applications It's 10 p.m. Money Consumer Recalls Business The Economy Personal Finance Real Estate Only on FOX 5 Street Soldiers The Tape Room Lew's View FOX 5 Flashback SkyFOX Videos Brand Spotlight Regional News New Jersey News - My9NJ Philadelphia News - FOX 29 Philadelphia Washington DC News - FOX 5 DC Over 80 arrested after anti-ICE protest erupts in NYC: 'We will not tolerate chaos' By Michael Stallone Published June 11, 2025 8:40am EDT Immigration 2025 FOX 5 NY Share Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Reddit NYC anti-ICE protesters clash with NYPD Dozens of anti-ICE protesters clashed with the NYPD in Lower Manhattan, leading to over 80 arrests. FOX 5 NY's Briella Tomassetti has the latest details. The Brief Over 80 people were arrested after anti-ICE protesters clashed with police. Those arrested were taken into custody after breaching metal barriers that were set up by police. "We will not tolerate chaos and disorder or violence," NYPD Commissioner Tisch said. NEW YORK CITY - Dozens of anti-ICE protesters clashed with the NYPD in Lower Manhattan on Tuesday night, leading to over 80 arrests. MORE: NYC anti-Trump 'No Kings Day' protest to coincide with DC military parade NYC protests What we know: Demonstrators were armed with signs, face coverings and flags. Some were led away to NYPD buses in zip ties, while others were wrestled to the ground and pepper sprayed by officers dressed in riot gear.&#xA0; NEW YORK, UNITED STATES - JUNE 10: Protestors confront NYPD officers during an anti-ICE protest outside 26 Federal Plaza Building in New York City, New York, U.S., June 10, 2025. (Photo by Mostafa Bassim/Anadolu via Getty Images) Those arrested were taken into custody after breaching metal barriers that were set up by police to keep them on the sidewalks and prevent them from spilling into traffic. The backstory: The chaos in Federal Plaza followed a planned demonstration in Foley Square, near a large government building that houses federal immigration offices and the city&apos;s main immigration court.&#xA0; Dozens of migrants showing up for hearings have been detained at the courthouse this month, prompting pushback and drawing activists to the area. The first day of local demonstrations happened on Saturday. Could the National Guard be deployed? What they're saying: New York City Mayor Eric Adams says he doesn&apos;t foresee President Donald Trump having to send in the National Guard to the city, saying any continued demonstrations can be solely handled by the NYPD. Adams emphasized the city&#x2019;s large law enforcement manpower and added that there are other options before turning to a military response. NEW YORK, UNITED STATES - JUNE 10: Protestors confront NYPD officers during an anti-ICE protest outside 26 Federal Plaza Building in New York City, New York, U.S., June 10, 2025. (Photo by Mostafa Bassim/Anadolu via Getty Images) According to The New York Post , Trump assured Deputy Mayor of Public Safety Kaz Daughtry and NYPD Chief of Department John Chell that he will not send the National Guard, provided the police keep demonstrators from acting out. Meanwhile, both Adams and NYPD Commissioner Jessica Tisch warned New York City would not tolerate violence tied to the protests.&#xA0; &quot;We want to maintain everyone&apos;s right to protest peacefully in the city and in this country, but we will not tolerate chaos and disorder or violence, and when we saw people breaking the rule or breaking the law, we stepped in, made arrests swiftly,&quot; Tisch said on Wednesday morning in an appearance on Good Day New York. Tisch on GDNY: Would NYC bring in the National Guard? NYPD Commissioner Jessica Tisch joined Good Day New York to discuss Tuesday night's protests in New York City. On the topic of the National Guard, Tisch responded: &quot;In New York City, the NYPD has a responsibility to maintain safety and order on our streets, and we will not abdicate that responsibility.&quot; &quot;We have plans in place so that if it escalates, we can bring cops in from all over the city,&quot; Tisch said. &quot;We have an army of 34,000 uniformed members of the service in New York City and New Yorkers should know that the NYPD is prepared for whatever comes our way.&quot; What we don't know: The charges of those arrested were unclear at the time. Trump, Los Angeles latest Big picture view: Los Angeles Mayor Karen Bass imposed an overnight curfew for the city in response to the looting of nearly two dozen businesses in the midst of anti-ICE demonstrations. Trump doubled down on Tuesday, defending the use of the National Guard in Los Angeles and left the door open to invoking the Insurrection Act, a federal law that allows a president to deploy military forces domestically. A line of NYPD officers pushes back a group of demonstrators trying to block an ICE transport van during a protest outside 26 Federal Plaza in New York USA on June 7 2025. (Photo by MADISON SWART/Hans Lucas/AFP via Getty Images) The Insurrection Act, passed through a series of laws between 1792 and 1871, has been used sparingly due to its sweeping power. The Source This article contains information from the NYPD and the Associated Press. Reporting from the New York Post and FOX 5 NY's Briella Tomassetti is also included. Immigration 2025 New York City Donald J. Trump NYPD Top Stories video More snow? Latest 7 day forecast for NYC area video NWS meteorologist talks potential storm next weekend video Commuters endure public transit after snow storm: NJ Transit, LIRR latest video FULL: Sherrill on response after NJ winter storm video Mamdani responds to NYC snow day: 'Feel free to throw a snowball at me' News Local NYC News New York State News National News Politics Crime &amp; Public Safety Entertainment Unusual Science Sports Seen on TV FOX News Sunday Newsletters Watch Live Weather Forecast Closings Weather Alerts Traffic Travel News FOX 5 NY Weather App FOX Weather Good Day New York Good Day Cafe Good Day Street Talk Health Things to Do Watch Live About Us How To Stream Meet The Team FOX 5 TV Schedule FOX Shows Get Our Apps Job Opportunities Public Affairs Contact Us Contests FCC Public File FCC Applications It's 10 p.m. Money Consumer Recalls Business The Economy Personal Finance Real Estate Only on FOX 5 Street Soldiers The Tape Room Lew's View FOX 5 Flashback SkyFOX Videos Brand Spotlight Regional News New Jersey News - My9NJ Philadelphia News - FOX 29 Philadelphia Washington DC News - FOX 5 DC facebook instagram TikTok YouTube X email New Privacy Policy Updated Terms of Use Your Privacy Choices FCC Public File EEO Public File About Us Jobs at FOX 5 Contact Us This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2026 FOX Television Stations