Title: ICE Throws Pepper Spray Into Car With Toddler Inside, Video Appears To Show
Authors: Marni Rose Mcfall, News Reporter

A viral video appears to show an Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agent throwing pepper spray into a car that had a toddler inside.

Tricia McLaughlin, an assistant secretary of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), wrote on X that no pepper spray had been used.

In response to a request for comment, DHS directed Newsweek to the post from McLaughlin and the DHS press release already referenced in this article.

Why It Matters

President Donald Trump campaigned on a hard-line immigration stance, pledging to carry out the largest mass deportation in American history. The Trump administration has mobilized police forces, both federal and state, to find and remove millions of migrants—sparking criticism over the tactics employed.

In September, DHS launched a crackdown in Chicago called “Operation Midway Blitz.” The agency said the operation would “target the criminal illegal aliens who flocked to Chicago and Illinois because they knew Governor Pritzker and his sanctuary policies would protect them and allow them to roam free on American streets.”

Illinois Governor JB Pritzker has criticized the operation, writing in a September X post: “Once again, this isn’t about fighting crime. That requires support and coordination—yet we’ve experienced nothing like that over the past several weeks. Instead of taking steps to work with us on public safety, the Trump Administration’s focused on scaring Illinoisians.”

...

What To Know

The incident unfolded at a Sam’s Club parking lot in Cicero, Illinois.

Footage of the incident is circulating on social media. One video shows a man, Rafael Veraza, at the wheel of a car, struggling to drive and wiping his eyes. It also shows a young child, Veraza’s daughter, Arinna, in a state of distress as Veraza tries to comfort her before moving away to wipe his eyes.

Veraza told CBS News that he had been pulling out of the Sam’s Club parking lot with his window rolled down when the spray hit him on the side of the head. He then realized that his daughter, who was in the back seat, was also affected by the chemicals.

“I had waters, water down my face and basically water down her face because I didn’t know the effects of the pepper spray toward her,” Veraza said.

“As adults, we can handle it, but as kids? Shouldn’t be targeting kids,” he continued. Veraza told the outlet that he had needed to go to the hospital, but his daughter did not.

In further remarks shared with the outlet WTTW News, Veraza said: “We’re not protesters. We were not even attacking them.” He added, “We were trying to leave. I was minding my own business.”

While commenting on the viral video, McLaughlin said in a statement on X: “No. There was no crowd control or pepper spray deployed in a Sam’s Club parking lot. Though, over the weekend in Chicago, law enforcement was shot at, bricks thrown at them, they were rammed with vehicles and other attacks.”

This incident followed a series of events in Little Village, where DHS said in a news release that “U.S. Border Patrol was attacked while conducting immigration enforcement operations.”

According to the department, agents’ vehicles were boxed in, agents came under gunfire, and attackers threw bricks and paint cans at agents. The agents then went to an FBI facility, where they encountered protesters who threw objects at them, DHS said.

Border Agents then went to the Sam’s Club parking lot where the alleged incident involving the pepper spray occurred. DHS said individuals had stalked and followed the ICE convoy into the parking lot.

The DHS news release said the series of incidents resulted in the arrest of nine people.

What People Are Saying

Tricia McLaughlin, an assistant secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, said in the news release: “In less than three hours in Chicago, Border Patrol faced gunshots, violent mobs at every stop, bricks and other objects thrown at them, and four vehicle rammings. The violence in Chicago against law enforcement is unprecedented.”

Laura N. Rodriguez Presa, a journalist for the Chicago Tribune, wrote on X: “Arianna Sofia Veraza, a one-year-old, and her parents were driving to Sam's Club for milk, eggs and diapers yesterday when they heard helicopters and horns blaring yesterday. They had turned around to leave when a federal agent pepper-sprayed them through a car window. They were not protesting.”

X user @LongtimeHistory, who shared footage of the incident, wrote on the platform: “ICE pours large canister of pepper spray directly into family car—hitting 1-year-old baby. ‘They were simply shopping at Sam's Club,’ said Matt, who filmed this video.”

What Happens Next

Enforcement operations are expected to ramp up as the Trump administration continues its immigration crackdown.

Update 11/10/25, 08:09 a.m. ET: This article has been updated to include a response to a comment request from the DHS.