Title: Illegal alien from Nicaragua passes away at a hospital in Natchez
Published: 2025-12-18 00:00:00

NATCHEZ, Miss. — On Dec. 14, 2025, ICE detainee Delvin Francisco Rodriguez, a 39-year-old illegal alien from Nicaragua, was pronounced dead at the Merit Health Natchez facility following a failed test to determine brain function. Per the wishes of the Rodriguez family, medical staff removed him from the ventilator.

On Dec 4, 2025, Adams County Detention Center medical staff responded to an emergency medical call. During the emergency response, Rodriguez did not respond to staff and did not have a pulse. Life saving measures were performed and he was transferred to the hospital, where he later passed away.

Rodriguez entered the United States at an unknown location and date without inspection, admission, or parole by an immigration officer. On June 9, 2018, U.S. Border Patrol encountered Rodriguez near Menagers Dam Village, Arizona. He was determined to be inadmissible, served a Notice and Order of Expedited Removal, and released on bond in July 2018.

On Sept. 25, 2025, ERO Denver Fugitive Operations arrested Rodriguez in Dillon, Colorado, and he was ordered removed to Nicaragua in October 2025 after waiving appeal. ERO Denver transferred Rodriguez to ERO New Orleans for removal staging; Rodriguez was booked into Adams County Detention Center pending his removal to Nicaragua on Dec. 13, 2025.

ICE remains committed to ensuring that all those in its custody reside in safe, secure and humane environments. Comprehensive medical care is provided from the moment individuals arrive and throughout the entirety of their stay. All illegal aliens in ICE custody receive medical, dental and mental health intake screening within 12 hours of arriving at each detention facility; a full health assessment within 14 days of entering ICE custody or arrival at a facility; access to medical appointments, and 24-hour emergency care. At no time during ICE detention is an alien denied emergent care.

ICE notified the Department of Homeland Security’s Office of Inspector General, ICE’s Office of Professional Responsibility and the Nicaraguan consulate about Rodriguez’s death, as required by agency policy.

ICE makes official notifications to Congress, nongovernmental organization stakeholders, and the media upon an official report of a detained illegal alien’s death, and per agency policy, posts a news release with relevant details on the ICE public website. This information may be accessed in the ICE.gov Newsroom.

Additionally, congressional requirements described in the DHS Appropriations Bill of 2018 require ICE to make public all reports regarding an in-custody death within 90 days. These reports may be accessed on the Detainee Death Reporting page.