Nicaraguan Man in ICE Custody Dies in Mississippi Hospital Close 📩 Subscribe to our free newsletter Search for: Search News Open dropdown menu In-Depth Investigations Solutions Legislature 2026 Voting 2026 Trey Reed Story Collections / Archives Bureaus Open dropdown menu Capital City Bureau Delta Bureau East Central Bureau Gulf Coast Bureau Oxford Bureau Pine Belt Bureau MFP Voices Open dropdown menu Democracy | Donna Ladd Features Open dropdown menu Culture People Photo Galleries Events Calendar Impact and Media Open dropdown menu MFP Awards to Date MFP Impact, Media and Awards 2025 Open dropdown menu MFP Impact, Media and Awards 2024 MFP Impact, Media and Awards 2023 MFP Impact, Media and Awards 2022 MFP Impact, Media and Awards 2021 MFP Impact, Media and Awards 2020 Who We Are Open dropdown menu Mississippi Free Press Staff Mississippi Journalism And Education Group Boards Our Donors Contact the MFP Jobs with the Mississippi Free Press Contract Gigs MFP Editorial Independence Policy More Open dropdown menu Donate to MFP Subscribe to our newsletter Solutions Circles Black Women, Systemic Barriers and COVID-19 Project MFP Live Open dropdown menu MFP Live – 2023 MFP Live – 2022 MFP Live – 2021 MFP Live Podcast Privacy Policy Opt-out preferences Mississippi Free Press Jackson Free Press JXN Pulse Solutions Circles Bluesky Facebook Threads Instagram Linkedin Youtube Email Close Skip to content Mississippi Free Press Jackson Free Press JXN Pulse Solutions Circles Bluesky Facebook Threads Instagram Linkedin Youtube Email Mississippi Free Press Journalism by Mississippians, for Mississippians 📩 Subscribe to our free newsletter Open Search Search for: Search Free Newsletter Menu News Open dropdown menu In-Depth Investigations Solutions Legislature 2026 Voting 2026 Trey Reed Story Collections / Archives Bureaus Open dropdown menu Capital City Bureau Delta Bureau East Central Bureau Gulf Coast Bureau Oxford Bureau Pine Belt Bureau MFP Voices Open dropdown menu Democracy | Donna Ladd Features Open dropdown menu Culture People Photo Galleries Events Calendar Impact and Media Open dropdown menu MFP Awards to Date MFP Impact, Media and Awards 2025 Open dropdown menu MFP Impact, Media and Awards 2024 MFP Impact, Media and Awards 2023 MFP Impact, Media and Awards 2022 MFP Impact, Media and Awards 2021 MFP Impact, Media and Awards 2020 Who We Are Open dropdown menu Mississippi Free Press Staff Mississippi Journalism And Education Group Boards Our Donors Contact the MFP Jobs with the Mississippi Free Press Contract Gigs MFP Editorial Independence Policy More Open dropdown menu Donate to MFP Subscribe to our newsletter Solutions Circles Black Women, Systemic Barriers and COVID-19 Project MFP Live Open dropdown menu MFP Live – 2023 MFP Live – 2022 MFP Live – 2021 MFP Live Podcast Privacy Policy Opt-out preferences Topic Highlight Menu Education Equity Policing Race &#038; Racism TANF Scandal National News Posted in News Nicaraguan Man in ICE Custody Dies in Mississippi Hospital by Nick Judin December 24, 2025 December 24, 2025 Share this: Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Threads (Opens in new window) Threads Share on Nextdoor (Opens in new window) Nextdoor Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email More Print (Opens in new window) Print Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Mastodon (Opens in new window) Mastodon Share on X (Opens in new window) X Delvin Francisco Rodriguez, a Nicaraguan immigrant in ICE custody at the Adams County Correctional Facility, died Dec. 14, 2025, at Merit Health Natchez. Rodriguez is one of seven immigrants in ICE custody reported dead in the month of December. Photo courtesy Adams County Correctional Center Authorities have reported the death of an immigrant in ICE custody in a Natchez, Mississippi hospital, capping off the deadliest year for detained immigrants in the United States in over 20 years . Delvin Francisco Rodriguez, 39, an immigrant from Nicaragua, was declared dead following a “failed test to determine brain function.” Previously, Rodriguez was detained at the Adams County Correctional Center. Rodriguez was taken from the detention center on Dec. 4 after what ICE called “an emergency medical call” where he did not respond to staff and did not have a pulse. Rodriguez was declared dead on Dec.14 at Merit Health Natchez. &nbsp;Sign up for our FREE email newsletter today! Unlock exclusive, in-depth stories that go beyond headlines. December has been particularly deadly for immigrants in ICE detention. Rodriguez’s death is one of the seven reported this month alone—as ICE has yet to update its own detainee death tracker since Sept. 22, 2025, it is unclear if any further deaths have been missed. The Adams County Correctional Facility is a detention center located just a few miles outside Natchez, MS, with a total average daily population of 2,244. Roughly nine in 10 immigrants detained at the center have not been charged with a crime. ICE reports Rodriguez was detained twice before his death in the agency’s custody, first on June 9, 2018, near Menagers Dam Village in Arizona, where he was given an expedited removal order and released on bond. On Sept. 25 of this year, Rodriguez was arrested in Dillon, Colorado, and scheduled to be removed to Nicaragua only a day before his eventual death. In 2024, an ACLU investigation of 52 deaths between 2017 and 2021 concluded that “independent medical experts found that 95 percent of deaths in detention were deemed as being preventable or possibly preventable if ICE had provided clinically appropriate medical care.” In its statement, ICE contends that consistent and quality medical care is provided to all detainees. “Comprehensive medical care is provided from the moment individuals arrive and throughout the entirety of their stay. All illegal aliens in ICE custody receive medical, dental and mental health intake screening within 12 hours of arriving at each detention facility; a full health assessment within 14 days of entering ICE custody or arrival at a facility; access to medical appointments, and 24-hour emergency care. At no time during ICE detention is an alien denied emergent care,” the statement reads. But independent investigations have found dangerous conditions at numerous immigrant detention facilities across the United States, including physical and sexual abuse, as well as unsafe and filthy living conditions. In October, the Mississippi Youth Media Project first reported a case in which immigrants at the Central Louisiana ICE Processing Center in Jena, Louisiana say they were sickened by unsafe drinking water. You + Mississippi Free Press = Impact Behind every story is a reporter knocking on doors in the Delta, walking neighborhoods along the Gulf Coast, sitting at kitchen tables in Jackson, and listening to voices that too often go unheard. That reporting continues because of consistent, reliable support from our community. Mississippi Free Press has never used a paywall and never will. We believe everyone deserves access to trustworthy journalism, no matter their income or zip code. Truth should never be something you have to pay extra to reach. We invite you to join the MFP VIP Club by becoming a monthly, quarterly or annual donor. Recurring gifts provide the steady foundation that allows our newsroom to plan boldly, report deeply and hold power accountable all year long. And our long, growing list of recurring donors helps attract larger gifts and grants! If you are not yet an MFP VIP Club member, now is the moment to join us. Even a small monthly gift creates lasting impact when we move together. Related Tagged: Adams County ,&nbsp; Health Care ,&nbsp; ICE ,&nbsp; immigrants ,&nbsp; Immigration ,&nbsp; Mississippi ,&nbsp; Natchez ,&nbsp; Southwest Mississippi Nick Judin Investigative Reporter nick@mississippifreepress.org x bluesky Investigative Reporter Nick Judin joined the Jackson Free Press in 2019, initially covering the 2020 legislative session before spearheading the outlet's COVID-19 coverage. His hard-hitting reporting, including probing interviews with state leaders and public-health experts, has earned national recognition. Now with the Mississippi Free Press, Nick continues to provide Mississippians with reliable, up-to-date pandemic insights, while also covering critical issues like Jackson's water crisis, housing challenges, and other pressing community concerns. Email the Jackson, Miss., native at nick@mississippifreepress.org. More by Nick Judin Search for: Search Recent Stories Opinion | When a Synagogue Burns, Memory Must Speak by Austin Reid Albanese Gov. Reeves Deploys Mississippi National Guard to Assist Winter Storm Recovery Efforts by Illan Ireland Mississippi Governor Defends Federal Agents After Alex Pretti Killing, Calling Protesters ‘Lawless Hordes’ by Ashton Pittman , Jim Mustian , Michael Biesecker and Associated Press Opinion | What Tariffs Are and How They Work by Kent Jones Bluesky Facebook Threads Instagram Linkedin Youtube Email 125 S. Congress Street #1324 Jackson, MS&nbsp; 39201 info@mississippifreepress.org tips@mississippifreepress.org events@mississippifreepress.org 601-362-6121 Mississippi Journalism and Education Group | A 501(c)(3) Public Charity | EIN 85-1403937 &copy; 2026 Mississippi Journalism and Education Group. All rights reserved Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Gift this article Close Link Copy link