Title: Police release names of people arrested at anti-ICE protest along Buford Highway
Authors: Christopher King

The Brief Demonstrators protested against recent immigration raids and deportations, accusing the Trump administration of targeting immigrant communities and using federal force to silence dissent. The rally was organized in response to increased ICE activity in metro Atlanta, with accusations of militarizing federal agencies and deploying the National Guard to suppress protests. Officials say they arrested six protesters when they refused to leave the area at the agreed-up cutoff time. Authorities say the group threw rocks, shot fireworks, and damaged three patrol vehicles.



Hundreds of demonstrators gathered Tuesday night along Buford Highway in Brookhaven to protest recent immigration raids and deportations carried out under the Trump administration, joining a wave of unrest that has swept across the country.

The protest, held outside Northeast Plaza, drew a large and passionate crowd of activists, families, and community members. Many carried signs, chanted in English and Spanish, and shared personal stories of family members detained or deported.

Officials say they arrested one person around 7:30 p.m. and five people were arrested after the protest continued past the time that officers and organizers agreed for the rally to end.

Charges range from disorderly conduct to assaulting a peace officer.

SEE ALSO: Protesters call for end of ICE raids, deportations at Atlanta rally

What we know:

FOX 5 cameras were on the scene as clashes between officers and the protesters began around 9:30 p.m.

Protesters set off fireworks as officers moved to break up the remainder of the rally.

Brookhaven police say that the officers made multiple announcements of the agreed-upon cutoff, telling the remaining group that the "assembly would be deemed unlawful" after that time.

Once the cutoff arrived, authorities say several people began throwing rocks and shooting fireworks mortars, which led to the officers using tear gas to disperse the crowd.

Officials say that three Brookhaven Police vehicles were damaged in the incident.

Image 1 of 25 ▼ Protesters line Buford Highway in front of Northeast Plaza during an anti-ICE rally on June 10, 2025. (FOX 5)

Charges:

On Wednesday afternoon, Brookhaven police released the names of all 6 people arrested Tuesday night.

Yair Cabrera is charged with aggravated assault upon a public safety officer, willful obstruction of law enforcement, inciting a riot and unlawful assembly, according to officers.

Police say Diego Juan Domingo is charged with willful obstruction of law enforcement, disorderly conduct and unlawful assembly.

Image 1 of 3 ▼ Elijah Petty (DeKalb County Sheriff's Office)

Balmaro Pineda is charged with willful obstruction of law enforcement, disorderly conduct and pedestrian in a roadway, according to BPD.

Elijah Petty is charged with willful obstruction of law enforcement, disorderly conduct and unlawful assembly, according to officers.

BPD says Rachel Tupler is charged with willful obstruction of law enforcement, disorderly conduct and unlawful assembly.

Nelson Ochoa Montoya is charged with loitering and prowling and willful obstruction of officers, according to police.

What they're saying:

Protesters say they plan to continue demonstrations in solidarity with those facing immigration enforcement actions across the country.

"I’m out here because they deported my grandpa last night," said one man, who identified himself as a U.S. citizen. "He’s a hard-working man. I get out of work today and I find this out. My people are protesting and I’m so proud of them. These people don’t know what we’re going through—struggling, building houses, making this America rich."

Maria Hernandez, another protester, said immigration agents are tearing families apart. "There’s a lot of people being kidnapped off the streets and from their work sites," she said. "These are men that mostly don’t have criminal records, and it’s affecting the whole community."

"We want people to know the Mexican race is always going to have your back no matter what," the man whose grandfather was deported said. "We’re not going away."

Big picture view:

The rally was one of several nationwide demonstrations opposing what activists describe as the militarization of immigration enforcement. In Los Angeles, a curfew was issued Tuesday night after reports of vandalism and looting, and protests erupted in Chicago and New York City as well.

President Trump has deployed more than 4,000 National Guard troops and 700 active-duty Marines to areas experiencing large demonstrations. The administration says the troops are intended to protect federal property and ICE agents amid what it describes as threats to public safety.

"I want to applaud the courage and the strength of the incredible troops who are right now standing guard to protect federal property and personnel," Trump said in a recorded address. "They’re protecting our ICE agents. They’re protecting the police in Los Angeles."

The move has drawn criticism from California officials. Los Angeles Mayor Karen Bass declared a local state of emergency, while Governor Gavin Newsom called the troop deployment "illegal" in a video statement.

SEE ALSO: