Torrance County Detention Facility Timeline | Innovation Law Lab Skip to main content Main navigation Home About People Programs Resources Cases Donate Torrance County Detention Facility Timeline A History of Cruelty and Resistance Listed below are just some of the events in the history of abuse at the Torrance County Detention Facility (TCDF) as well as the struggle to stop such harm. Read news coverage about TCDF here . Hear and read firsthand Testimonies from TCDF here . Click here for more information about all three Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) detention facilities in New Mexico. (Content warning: violence, self-harm, and other mistreatment in a carceral setting.) Map includes a non-comprehensive snapshot of flooding and drainage backup incidents reported between April 2023 and April 2025.&nbsp; Note: This map is not intended to be exhaustive. Additionally, individuals detained have reported at least six more incidents of wastewater flooding through October 2025, including in the kitchen and cell blocks 1 and 2, not pictured above. January 9, 2026: Amid investigation, New Mexico Department of Justice notes TCDF contract extension in December 2025 was "likely improper and invalid." January 4, 2026: CoreCivic and estate of Kesley Vial, who died by suicide at TCDF, will settle wrongful death suit instead of proceeding to trial. January 2026: 50 people detained by ICE at TCDF write of gross inadequacies in mail service, harming their legal cases. December 30, 2025: In a 3-0 vote, Torrance County Commission extends expired contract with ICE to operate TCDF until March 31, 2026. The contract modification increases monthly payment to $2.4 million &mdash; to be passed to CoreCivic &mdash; and requires that staffing be at 85%. December 2025: Population of people detained by ICE reportedly drops by hundreds since the summer of 2025, according to reports from people detained, as ICE appears to halt new transfers into TCDF following the expiration of the detention contract with Torrance County. November 7, 2025:&nbsp; US Senator Martin Heinrich renews call for closure of TCDF and depopulation by ICE after contract expiration. November 6, 2025: CoreCivic kicks Innovation Law Lab legal visitors out of TCDF, blocking dozens of people detained from access to legal services and documents. ICE and CoreCivic officials state that the denial of the visit was a response to the November 5 community demonstration. November 5, 2025: Coalition of organizations calls for the release of everyone detained by ICE at TCDF, given their unlawful detention in the wake of ICE and Torrance County's contract expiration. Community members hold demonstration outside of TCDF. November 1, 2025: CoreCivic and ICE continue detention of hundreds of individuals at TCDF without contractual authority to do so, as Torrance County's agreement with ICE for the detention of individuals at TCDF expires. October 28, 2025: Innovation Law Lab submits urgent alert to ICE Office of Acquisition Management Contracting Officer Brittany Tobias&nbsp; regarding widespread sewage flooding in TCDF, calling for ICE detention at TCDF to be terminated. Tobias acknowledges receipt the next day. October 11, 2025 :&nbsp;Dozens of community members gather in Estancia for a vigil in honor of those who have passed and those who are struggling for freedom inside of TCDF. Attendees conduct a car rally in front of TCDF, to calls of "libertad!" or "freedom!" from men detained behind the fences . September 2025: A 26-year-old-man attempts suicide by hanging at TCDF after spending more than six months detained by ICE. CoreCivic keeps him in isolation for eight days, which the man describes as "horrible." August 2025: A 55-year-old-man attempts suicide by hanging at TCDF, according to 911 records. June 5, 2025 : US Senator Martin Heinrich writes to Acting Director of ICE Todd Lyons, noting that &ldquo;a number of new and deeply serious safety, staffing, and sanitation issues were witnessed by my staff in their latest visit&rdquo; and reiterating reiterating his call for DHS to end its contract at TCDF. May to June, 2025: Hundreds of people write to ICE Field Office Director calling for a halt to transfers into TCDF, highlighting 25 key demands of people detained. April 30, 2025:&nbsp; The town of Estancia, New Mexico, holds an emergency meeting due to lack of water as people detained in TCDF report going three days without running water and horrific, ongoing conditions including sewage backup and flooding. April 29, 2025: Innovation Law Lab alerts ICE Field Office Director Mary De Anda Ybarra and DHS Office of the Inspetor General of sewage flooding crisis inside detention units, calling for a halt to further transfer of individuals to TCDF and depopulation of the facility, which has been the site of ongoing sewage flooding. March 26, 2025: Torrance County Commissioners vote 3-0 to extend the county&rsquo;s contract with ICE to detain people at TCDF until October 31, 2025. Opposition from advocates and people detained has been delivered in public comments at each commission meeting for over a year. March 4, 2025: Record of harm at TCDF revealed in nearly 1000 pages of records received in reply to a Freedom of Information Act request to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties (CRCL) regarding complaints TCDF. February 18, 2025: Whistleblowers with, between them, more than a decade of experience working at TCDF report to US senators and Department of Homeland Security officials and that &ldquo;the private-prison operator of the facility, CoreCivic, mismanaged the center leading to fraud and abusive conditions for both employees and detained persons, and that these violations occurred with the knowledge of CoreCivic and ICE leadership.&nbsp;&ldquo; February 11, 2025: Adding to recent reports of water shortages inside TCDF, multiple individuals detained report going three days without being able to shower. February 2, 2025: Over 100 people detained by ICE, taken from their communities in the Northeast US, are transferred 2,000 miles away to TCDF . Multiple individuals report that no one in their detention unit, from the transfer, has been provided with any paperwork from ICE. December 30, 2024: In a 2-1 vote, Torrance County Commissioners extend the intergovernmental service agreement with ICE for use of TCDF as an immigrant detention center through March 31, 2025. Changing course from previous approvals, outgoing commissioner Samuel Schropp votes against the extension, stating, &ldquo;I can no longer support Core Civic and the TCDF in good conscience.&rdquo; December 19, 2024: Per ACLU of New Mexico , First Hearing in Carlos Doe v. ICE exposes ICE&rsquo;s lack of accountability in continuing to detain individuals at Torrance County Detention Facility November 21, 2024:&nbsp; Sewage containing feces yet again floods from a toilet in detention unit 5C , as men detained are compelled to free those locked in the cell with the sewage, and staff do not respond for over five hours. On or around November 26 in unit 6D, water repeatedly overflows from a toilet, pooling with feces in the common eating area. November 19, 2024: In protest of prolonged detention and other well-documented abusive conditions, Eugenio Casta&ntilde;eda Ferrer and four other men refuse entry to cells for overly-long confinement during &ldquo;count.&rdquo; The next day, at least ten staff members threaten to use force against the men and move them to solitary confinement. Three of the men commence a hunger strike to gain their freedom. On November 22, ICE transfers Eugenio to another facility. October 30, 2024: Per several men detained, sewage flooding &mdash; documented at length in TCDF &mdash; occurs in detention units 5C and 6B. October 24, 2024: &nbsp; The American Immigration Council issues report calling for the shutdown of TCDF and documenting disparate, lengthy detention of African migrants and other forms of abuse and impunity at the facility since 2019. September 25, 2024: Torrance County Commissioners vote 3-0 to extend intergovernmental service agreement with ICE (see p. 174 ) for use of TCDF as an immigrant detention center through December 31, 2024. Commissioners provided no discussion or rationale for the approval despite dozens firsthand testimonies and advocates&rsquo; comments opposing contract extension presented at every meeting for over five months. July 22, 2024:&nbsp; Innovation Law Lab alerts ICE Office of Acquisition Management Contracting Officer Brittany Tobias of wastewater flooding across majority of ICE detention units, calling for detention contract to be terminated. June 10, 2024:&nbsp; Five detained men release letter decrying long-term detention in harmful conditions, lack of meaningful communication with ICE, and the cancellation of free phone calls. A spokesperson from the group shares a reading of the letter before the Torrance County Commission on June 12, 2024. May 15, 2024: ICE extends intergovernmental service agreement with Torrance County for use of TCDF as an immigrant detention center through September 29, 2024. May 15, 2024: 10 US senators call on ICE director and DHS secretary to&nbsp; &ldquo;most urgently&rdquo; &nbsp;consider TCDF for contract termination, along with three other &ldquo;private detention facilities with well-documented deficient conditions.&rdquo; May 8, 2024: Edwin Garcia, released from TCDF, joins public comment before the Torrance County Commission calling for an end to the ICE contract. April 24, 2024: &nbsp; Despite dozens of public comments attesting to torturous conditions inside of TCDF, Torrance County Commissioners vote 3-0 to empower the County Manager to extend the ICE intergovernmental services agreement at the jail for four more months. April 23, 2024: The American Civil Liberties Union notifies acting head of ICE that agency officials &ldquo;misled the public about the treatment of Kesley Vial, a 23-year-old man who died in ICE custody following a fatal suicide attempt&rdquo; at TCDF in August 2022, before continuing to transfer more people to TCDF. April 10, 2024: Advocates read testimonies of TCDF survivors before the Torrance County Commission to call for the ICE contract not to be renewed in May 2024. Detained immigrants join community demonstration from inside TCDF. March 2024: Colorado College researchers issue report on abuse at TCDF. February 29, 2024: For the fourth time in four months, another group of detained individuals alerts DHS oversight agencies about harm from wastewater backup. They also describe experiencing rashes from lack of clean laundry and being provided non-potable water instead of drinking water. January 31, 2024:&nbsp; Detained individuals sound alarm over third sewage flood in TCDF within three months. January 17, 2024: Humanitarian Outreach for Migrant Emotional Health (H.O.M.E.) issues second report documenting pervasive psychological harm enacted upon people in ICE custody in TCDF and gross professional misconduct by personnel. January 17, 2024:&nbsp; Approximately 20 men detained pen testimonies regarding their survival of mistreatment, health risks, and more at TCDF &mdash; including calls to shut down TCDF and cease ICE&rsquo;s further transfer of individuals to the facility. Excerpts are shared the next day with New Mexico state legislators considering a ban on municipal contracts with ICE. December 6, 2023: US Senator Martin Heinrich sends a letter &nbsp;to Department of Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas citing disturbing reports from people detained in Torrance County Detention Facility (TCDF) in New Mexico and reiterating a call for ICE to end its contract at the facility. December 4, 2023: Staff members remove an alleged organizer of fellow detained individuals to an isolation unit. Officers falsely claim he sought to harm himself and, after he indicates he does not need or want to be placed in isolation, brutally assault him . December 1, 2023: Twenty-three detained individuals issue an open letter decrying conditions in the TCDF. &ldquo;There is no food or good treatment that will give us back the time that is being stolen and taken away from us,&rdquo; the men write. November 14, 2023: A flood of raw sewage leaves approximately 40 men in one detention unit desperately asking TCDF staff to let them out into the hallway for hours. After some of the men are able to use an emergency exit to get to safety in the adjacent unit, TCDF staff seeks to blame detained individuals for allegedly opening the emergency door in violation of facility rules and places those individuals in solitary confinement. November 3, 2023:&nbsp; Carlos, Luis, Ernesto, and Gabriel&nbsp;Doe file a class action lawsuit against ICE in federal court to challenge the continued use of TCDF. The lawsuit argues that ICE arbitrarily and capriciously recertified the facility as meeting detention standards, thus thwarting a federal law that would have required ICE to cancel its contract with the facility. Innovation Law Lab is representing plaintiffs in this lawsuit, together with the National Immigrant Justice Center, the American Civil Liberties Union of New Mexico, and Quinn Emanuel Urquhart &amp; Sullivan, LLP.&nbsp; October 24, 2023: Citing widespread harm, repeated violations, and mounting lawsuits, a coalition of non-profit legal service providers, advocates, and community members urge Torrance County commissioners not to renew the contract for civil immigration detention at TCDF when it expires in May 2024.&nbsp; September 26, 2023: The wrongful death estate of Kesley Vial, a 23-year-old Brazilian asylum seeker, files a lawsuit against TCDF operator CoreCivic. Vial was held in ICE custody at TCDF and died from a fatal suicide attempt in August 2022. The suit notes systemic failures in the facility&rsquo;s mental health care and charges that CoreCivic&rsquo;s negligence resulted in Kesley&rsquo;s death.&nbsp; August 21, 2023: Innovation Law Lab, New Mexico Immigrant Law Center, Las Americas Immigrant Advocacy Center, and ACLU of New Mexico submit a complaint to the DHS Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties and other oversight agencies, calling for immediate investigation into ongoing due process violations and human rights abuses at Torrance. These organizations call on ICE to terminate its contract at Torrance. July 11, 2023: Guards brutally attack Carlos Funez-Monrroy, detained at Torrance, after misunderstanding an interaction in the Spanish language and threatening to take him to solitary confinement.&nbsp; One guard nearly strangles Mr. Funez-Monrroy to death until other detained men scream for him to stop.&nbsp; Torrance staff take Mr. Funez-Monrroy to solitary confinement and fail to provide adequate medical care. July 11, 2023: &nbsp;Eleven persons detained at Torrance sign a joint letter exposing the inadequate care and human rights abuses that they suffered at Torrance. July 2023: &nbsp;Several groups of men seeking asylum and imprisoned at Torrance speak out about widespread, persistent, and fatal conditions at Torrance, including harm to physical and mental health, retaliation by staff, labor exploitation, inadequate food, and due process violations. May 27, 2023: &nbsp;Juan &Aacute;ngel Hern&aacute;ndez Castillo, detained at Torrance, suffers a serious fall after a water leak that had been repeatedly reported to Torrance staff causes him to slip and fall. He is confined to a wheelchair and bed. April 2023: &nbsp;W. (who prefers not to use his full name due to fear) reported that he was denied medical attention despite making multiple requests amid ongoing pain and complications due to a hernia exacerbated while working in the facility&rsquo;s kitchen. When he asked a guard for help, she told him she didn&rsquo;t care and her job was to provide security. W. explained in a declaration: &ldquo;When I got here, I weighed 210 pounds, and now, three months later, I weigh 175. I am anxious and cry frequently. I have trouble eating and trouble sleeping.&rdquo; March 2023: &nbsp;Claudio Gonzalez, detained at Torrance, reports to Law Lab that a guard had intentionally slammed a cell door on his hand. Facility medical staff told him repeatedly that they didn&rsquo;t have adequate equipment to address the injury. An ICE officer denied that the assault took place. March 20, 2023: &nbsp;Following the lack of a response to the previous letter and continuation of inhumane tactics, Innovation Law Lab and partner organizations send a second demand letter to DHS, ICE, and USCIS. March 3, 2023: A person detained at Torrance reveals his nonfatal suicide attempt the previous month, stating that Torrance&rsquo;s response was simply to place him in isolation. February 24, 2023 : Following publication of the previous week&rsquo;s report, Innovation Law Lab and partner organizations write to DHS, ICE, and United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) demanding that they cease and investigate the inhumane treatment of detained people at Torrance. February 2023 : 115 men detained at Torrance sign a letter calling on Secretary Mayorkas to close the facility and for Congress to investigate &ldquo;expedited removal at Torrance, medical abuse, the use of torture rooms for those who admit thoughts of suicide, and retaliation by CoreCivic against persons who denounce conditions and injustices.&rdquo; February 18, 2023 : Erick Zelaya is assaulted by Torrance guards and denied subsequent medical attention after protesting that the nightly cell count was an hour earlier that day. February 15, 2023 : Innovation Law Lab releases report entitled Sleep Deprivation, Torture Rooms, a Rigged Deportation Process, and Attempted Suicide at the Torrance County Detention Facility in Estancia, New Mexico . It is accompanied by a letter signed by 115 people detained at TCDF demanding immediate investigation and closure of the facility. February 9, 2023 : PREA audit from April 2022 is finalized. After Torrance&rsquo;s noncompliance in 11 standards was announced in May 2022, it is still out of compliance with 6 standards. Among other findings, the audit reported that Torrance staff failed to report allegations of sexual assault to all appropriate authorities. January 28, 2023 : Another person detained at Torrance, remaining anonymous out of fear of retaliation, suffers a nonfatal suicide attempt . January 27, 2023: Dozens of detained people stage a hunger strike due to mistreatment by guards and inhumane conditions. Torrance staff retaliate by cutting off communication lines with pro bono counsel and isolating alleged leaders of the strike. December 2022-February 2023: &nbsp;With just a few people left detained by ICE at Torrance, ICE decides that, instead of ending ICE detention in the facility, they would send hundreds of people seeking asylum to Torrance. People detained at Torrance report a complete absence of privacy during their asylum interviews as well as being cut off by officials while they try to tell their stories of surviving horrific trauma. Most are rapidly ordered deported. December 19, 2022: &nbsp;DHS Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties (CRCL) reveals that from May 2021-July 2022, it received 192 allegations of retaliation by ICE and CoreCivic personnel from detained individuals in five ICE facilities, including Torrance. Types of retaliation include physical and sexual abuse, denial of legal counsel, and delays or outright denial of medical care. CRCL proceeded to formally investigate 138 of the allegations. December 2, 2022: &nbsp;Immigrant rights groups send a letter to the ICE Health Service Corps requesting an urgent investigation into a worsening medical and mental healthcare crisis at Torrance. Advocates include a report by expert clinicians with Humanitarian Outreach for Migrant Emotional Health (H.O.M.E.) indicating that &ldquo;TCDF fails to employ effective, evidence-based suicide prevention strategies,&rdquo; among other critical issues ( see p. 5 ). December 2022: &nbsp;Ten of eleven men detained at Torrance prepare an open letter denouncing tortuous conditions at the facility, calling for their freedom, and calling on ICE to cancel plans to bring anyone else to Torrance. November 30, 2022: &nbsp;Rafael Oliveira, detained at Torrance, suffers a nonfatal suicide attempt . October 25-27, 2022: &nbsp;The latest ICE ODO inspection finds 9 operational deficiencies at Torrance, up from 6 in May.&nbsp; Among other deficiencies, Torrance staff received inadequate suicide prevention training and did not adequately monitor individuals placed on suicide watch. August 17, 2022: &nbsp;Kesley Vial, an asylum seeker detained at Torrance, hangs himself and later dies by suicide &nbsp;at age 23. June 13, 2022: &nbsp;ACLU of New Mexico files FOIA suit on behalf of Innovation Law Lab to acquire records related to the inhumane conditions at Torrance as well as ICE&rsquo;s defiance of DHS OIG&rsquo;s recommendations to immediately remove all detainees. May 15, 2022: &nbsp;Report is released from April PREA audit , finding that Torrance is out of compliance with 11 standards. May 3-5, 2022: &nbsp;An ICE ODO inspection finds 6 operational deficiencies at Torrance, including those related to food service in medical care. April 19-21, 2022: &nbsp;Torrance undergoes its first National Standards to Prevent, Detect, and Respond to Prison Rape (PREA) audit . April 15-19, 2022: &nbsp;ICE transfers over 100 people to Torrance even though a DHS OIG Managment Alert issued only weeks earlier called for the immediate removal of all people detained at Torrance due to dangerous conditions at the facility. March 25, 2022: &nbsp;NM Congresswoman Melanie Stansbury announces that her Torrance visit earlier in the week may have been manipulated. She reveals she had limited access to housing units, a wait time of over 2 hours to enter Torrance facilities despite her legal authority to conduct unannounced visits, and a &ldquo;managed and controlled&rdquo; experience by CoreCivic management. March 23, 2022: &nbsp;ICE OAQ modifies the IGSA, stating that Torrance has been &ldquo;repeatedly in violation&rdquo; of federal detention center standards as well as their contract. They also note that CoreCivic has overseen a &ldquo;breakdown in the overall operational capabilities of the TCDF&rdquo; and an inability to &ldquo;provide a safe environment for staff and noncitizens, provide the necessary security&hellip; and [provide the] care necessary to ensure proper facility maintenance, overall cleanliness, and personal hygiene needs.&rdquo; March 18, 2022: &nbsp;4 of 5 members of NM&rsquo;s congressional delegation release a joint statement condemning Torrance&rsquo;s &ldquo;inhumane and unsafe conditions&rdquo; and citing DHS OIG&rsquo;s Management Alert. March 16, 2022: &nbsp;DHS OIG publishes Management Alert calling for the immediate removal of all detained people from Torrance. February 9, 2022: &nbsp;ICE reduces the maximum allowed capacity of Torrance by almost 30% given continual staffing and resource shortages and also halves the beds available for USMS use. February 4, 2022: &nbsp;ICE reports that DHS OIG found extremely poor conditions at Torrance in an unannounced inspection, including &ldquo;unhealthy conditions, staff shortages, and detainees in segregation who had not been let out for a week.&rdquo; December 17, 2021: &nbsp;New Mexico Senators Martin Heinrich and Ben Ray Luj&aacute;n as well as Congresswomen Melanie Stansbury and Teresa Leger Fern&aacute;ndez (4 of NM&rsquo;s 5 congressional representatives) write to the Department of Homeland Security regarding Torrance. They express deep concern regarding inhumane conditions, lack of transparency, lack of legal representation, failed inspections and 43 safety and health grievances from people detained at Torrance. November 30, 2021: &nbsp;Multiple complaints by detained people about conditions at Torrance are referred directly to ICE. According to the complaints, air conditioning is not working, sinks are leaking, water is flooding from one cell to another, cells have standing water in them, cells smell rotten, bedsheets are dirty, phones are often disconnected, staff are abusive, food is inedible, and medical care is inadequate. November 16-18, 2021: &nbsp;ICE ODO conducts an inspection of Torrance &nbsp;and finds 21 operational deficiencies, noting that the facility holds no accreditation from any outside entities. After the last inspection by ICE ODO in May, which found 9 operational deficiencies, CoreCivic has not provided any corrective action plan. November 5, 2021: &nbsp;Innovation Law Lab and partners send letter to ICE demanding that Haitian people detained at Torrance be provided with access to counsel and other legal resources, which had thus far been denied. September 14, 2021: &nbsp;ICE&rsquo;s Office of Acquisition Management (OAQ) formally modifies its Torrance contract given discrepancies between CoreCivic&rsquo;s operational performance and the standards set forth in the contract. September-October 2021: &nbsp;73 Haitian people originally detained in Del Rio, Texas are sent to TCDF. At TCDF, they are largely prevented from accessing counsel and legal materials written in a language they understand, presenting major obstacles for their claims to asylum and any other immigration relief. July 27-29, 2021 : The ICE-friendly Nakamoto Group conducts its annual inspection of Torrance . This time, its rating is &ldquo;Does Not Meet Standards.&rdquo; As Nakamoto reports, the facility is staffed at only 50% and staff are working mandatory overtime; food service is unsanitary; housing units are unhygienic; detained people who are indigent cannot visit with friends and family; Torrance is not keeping records of complaints filed by detained people; and the facility is not accredited by the American Correctional Association, the National Commission on Correctional Healthcare, the Joint Commission on Healthcare, or under the Department of Justice Prison Rape Elimination Act. Nakamoto also reported that one suicide had occurred at Torrance in the past year. May 3-7, 2021: &nbsp;ICE ODO inspects Torrance for the first time since late 2020 and finds 9 operational deficiencies related to security, food service, and medical care. December 21, 2020: ICE issues a Contract Discrepancy Report that reduces monthly Torrance invoices given unsatisfactory operational performance by CoreCivic. In particular, &ldquo;facility medical staffing is not in line with the agreed upon contractual staffing plan and the facility has critical medical staffing shortages. It has also been discovered that the Chief Medical Officer has not been dedicated to the [Torrance] contract and has been supporting multiple facilities at the same time, which has resulted in very limited coverage.&rdquo; November 30-December 3, 2020: Another ICE ODO inspection of Torrance &nbsp;finds 3 operational deficiencies. Among these deficiencies, medical staff failed to note whether a detained person had been diagnosed with a mental health condition before that person was placed in solitary confinement. September 29-October 1, 2020: &nbsp;On behalf of ICE, the Nakamoto Group conducts its first annual inspection of Torrance , rating it &ldquo;Meets Standards.&rdquo; The Nakamoto Group, which received over $55 million in ICE contracts from 2007-2019, has previously come under fire for its lax inspection procedures and perceived deference to ICE. It is known to draw more favorable conclusions on ICE facilities than the Department of Homeland Security&rsquo;s Office of the Inspector General (OIG). July 27-30, 2020: &nbsp;ICE&rsquo;s Office of Detention Oversight (ODO) conducts a Congressionally-mandated inspection of Torrance and finds 6 operational deficiencies&mdash;3 deficiencies related to security (including solitary confinement) and 3 related to medical care of detained people. May 14, 2020: &nbsp;Dozens of CoreCivic guards charge into the dorm housing the hunger strikers. They are wearing gas masks and shields, blocking the exits, and forcing all detained people to stand in one corner. They use multiple cans of industrial-grade pepper spray in the unventilated room on the defenseless asylum seekers, who scream and claw at their eyes, neck, and skin. Multiple asylum seekers fall unconscious, but the medical team refuses to enter the room because the guards are unsuccessful in decontaminating it. The asylum seekers are all placed in solitary confinement, where two attempt suicide. Around this time, Torrance also confirms that it has seen its first COVID-19 case. May 11, 2020: Asylum seekers detained at Torrance begin a peaceful hunger strike regarding prison conditions and the facility&rsquo;s COVID-19 response, asking for formalized social distancing measures, personal protective equipment, regular access to testing, and updates on the spread of the virus. October 2019: Torrance County signs a Management Agreement with CoreCivic, a private prison company that owns Torrance.&nbsp; This arrangement allows Torrance County to pass off its obligations under the IGSA to CoreCivic. May 15, 2019: ICE enters an Intergovernmental Service Agreement (IGSA) with Torrance County, New Mexico to detain migrants at TCDF, enabling the prison to reopen. October 2017: CoreCivic shuts down TCDF after attempt to compel authorities in New Mexico to fill available space inside. July 18, 2013: Gene Garcia Junior dies in TCDF due to medical neglect, according to public comment of his sister-in-law Denise Ruby before Torrance County Commission on December 11, 2024. October 17, 2012: Anthony Mancini dies from coronary artery disease in Torrance County Detention Facility (TCDF, formerly TCDC) due to negligence of authorities, per court filing . August 9, 2001: Calvin Lamy dies by suicide in US Marshals custody in TCDC (later renamed TCDF) despite staff having been informed of his potential suicide risk, per court filing . December 2000: Warden and chief of security fired following uprising by incarcerated individuals. 1990: Corrections Corporation of America (later renamed CoreCivic) opens Torrance County Detention Center (TCDC) on unzoned land in Estancia, New Mexico in order to incarcerate up to 970 people under county, state, out-of-state, and federal contracts. Spotlight Torrance County Detention Facility in the News Torrance County Detention Facility Testimonies from Torrance Open Letter from &ldquo;Los &Uacute;ltimos Guerreros,&rdquo; the Last People Detained by ICE at Torrance County Detention Facility Legal Organizing Legal Organizing Related Content January 15, 2026 Basic page Campaign to Reunite Jos&eacute; and His Son &mdash; Separated by ICE Detention and Struggling Jos&eacute; is the sole guardian for his six-year-old child, but ICE has held him at the notorious Torrance County Detention Facility for months without progress on his case. He and his son are struggling without each other. Demand that ICE free Jos&eacute; and reunite him with his son! December 8, 2025 Press Release Detention Continues Despite Expired Contract ICE and CoreCivic are detaining people at the Torrance County facility despite the ICE contract expiring on Oct. 31, 2025. Advocates say this violates ICE policy and cite ongoing abuses, calling for the immediate release of all individuals held there. December 6, 2025 News and Analysis Volunteers Needed &ndash; Project in New Mexico Come volunteer with Innovation Law Lab to support immigrants detained at ICE and CoreCivic&rsquo;s infamous Torrance County Detention Facility (TCDF) in Estancia, New Mexico. Read on and sign up&nbsp;to learn how you can help! December 6, 2025 Case Ziaei v. Ortiz Whether ICE can re-detain people granted withholding of removal without an individualized determination, notice or opportunity to be heard. December 6, 2025 Resource The Attorney General&rsquo;s Judges Since its creation, the contemporary immigration court system has been perpetually afflicted by dysfunction. Today, under the Trump administration, the immgration court system&mdash;a system whose important work is vital for our nation's collective prosperity&mdash;has e November 17, 2025 News and Analysis Detention Continues Despite Expired Contract ICE and CoreCivic are detaining people at the Torrance County facility despite the ICE contract expiring on Oct. 31, 2025. Advocates say this violates ICE policy and cite ongoing abuses, calling for the immediate release of all individuals held there. November 4, 2025 Basic page Our Technology &amp; Products We build cool technology to defend human rights. November 2, 2025 News and Analysis Reports &amp; Complaints about Otero County Processing Center Otero County Processing Center has a long, well-documented history of human rights violations. October 16, 2025 Basic page The Attorney General&rsquo;s Judges Since its creation, the contemporary immigration court system has been perpetually afflicted by dysfunction. Today, under the Trump administration, the immgration court system&mdash;a system whose important work is vital for our nation's collective prosperity&mdash;has effectively collapsed. October 1, 2025 Basic page Torrance County Detention Facility Cruel, Harmful, and Completely Unnecessary. October 1, 2025 Basic page Reports and Complaints about the Cibola County Correctional Center Complaints &amp; Reports October 1, 2025 Basic page Cibola County Correctional Center in the News Press about the Cibola County Correctional Center (CCCC). October 1, 2025 Basic page Cibola County Correctional Center Timeline Cibola County Correctional Center (CCCC) is a notorious ICE, US Marshals, and County jail in Milan, New Mexico. October 1, 2025 Basic page Cibola County Correctional Center The Cibola County Correctional Center (CCCC) is a notorious immigration prison in Milan, New Mexico. Since CCCC began detaining people in ICE custody in October 2016, thousands of asylum seekers have suffered within its walls &mdash; surviving inhumane conditions, woefully inadequate medical and mental health care, and rampant due process violations, among other harm. October 1, 2025 Basic page Testimonies from Torrance Testimonies directly from people detained inside the Torrance County Detention Facility. October 1, 2025 Basic page Overview of New Mexico ICE Detention Navigate to background, timelines, and news about notorious ICE detention centers in New Mexico October 1, 2025 Basic page Torrance County Detention Facility in the News The Torrance County Detention Facility (TCDF) is an infamous immigration prison in Estancia, New Mexico, owned and operated by the private prison company CoreCivic. See some of the news coverage of TCDF below. September 25, 2025 Basic page Reports and Complaints about the Otero County Processing Center Reports and Complaints about the Otero County Processing Center September 25, 2025 Basic page Otero County Processing Center in the News Press highlights about issues related to the Otero County Processing Center September 25, 2025 Basic page Otero County Processing Center The Otero County Processing Center (OCPC) is an infamous immigration prison in Chaparral, New Mexico. Since OCPC was opened in 2008, thousands of asylum seekers have suffered within its walls, surviving inhumane conditions, woefully inadequate medical and mental health care, retaliation for speaking up, rampant due process violations, and other harms. September 25, 2025 Basic page Otero County Processing Center Timeline Listed below are just some of the events in the history of abuse at Otero County Processing Center (OCPC) as well as the struggle to stop such harm. Read news coverage about OCPC here. Read more about CCCC, with links to ICE&rsquo;s other New Mexico detention facilities, here. September 25, 2025 Resource THRIVE: A Blueprint for Policy and Public Officials for Self-Reliant Rural Communities Without Immigration Prisons This report is a resource for rural communities and lawmakers who wish to understand the true impact of immigration detention, a harmful practice that is neither historically inevitable nor legally necessary. September 25, 2025 Case Innovation Law Lab v. ICE We successfully sought agency records that relate to ICE&rsquo;s defiance of the DHS OIG recommendations at Torrance County Detention Facility in New Mexico, relating to the dangerous conditions documented by the DHS OIG. September 25, 2025 Resource Federal Complaint Filed Regarding Ongoing Human Rights Violations at Torrance County Detention Facility The New Mexico Immigrant Law Center, Las Americas Immigrant Advocacy Center, Innovation Law Lab, and the American Civil Liberties Union of New Mexico submitted a complaint to the Department of Homeland Security Office September 24, 2025 Resource Safeguarding Oregon Schools: A Toolkit A Toolkit for Schools and School Districts to Protect School Communities Threatened with Immigration Enforcement September 24, 2025 Resource Preparing for ICE Encounters: Know Your Rights, Responses, and Recourses A resource for how you and your family can prepare in the event of an encounter with immigration enforcement. September 23, 2025 Program Rural Civic Engagement September 23, 2025 Resource Safeguarding Oregon Healthcare Facilities: A Toolkit July 31, 2025 News and Analysis Justice Bus The Justice Bus brings lawyers directly to our communities and makes getting a lawyer more accessible. April 29, 2025 News and Analysis Community Organizations and Houses of Worship Across the Nation Sue Trump Administration to Preserve the Sanctity of Safe Spaces The Trump administration was sued in order to protect the sanctity of safe and secure spaces. March 14, 2025 Resource Safe Schools, Safe Students: A Toolkit for Florida Educators, Students, and Parents A toolkit for educators to keep their institutions safe from immigration enforcement operations. March 5, 2025 News and Analysis Harm at Torrance Revealed in Detention Oversight Records The Innovation Law Lab receives a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) that uncovers the harm being done at the Torrance County Detention Facility (TCDF). February 12, 2025 News and Analysis Immigrant Rights Organization Asks Court to Halt Remain in Mexico Restart The Immigrant Defenders Law Center (ImmDef) asked a federal court to halt the Trump administration&rsquo;s plan to restart the Remain in Mexico policy. February 12, 2025 News and Analysis HB 9, the Immigrant Safety Act, Introduced to End New Mexico&rsquo;s Complicity in Immigration Detention New Mexico lawmakers introduced House Bill 9, the Immigrant Safety Act, a measure aimed at cutting New Mexico&rsquo;s ties to the federal immigration detention system. January 15, 2025 Press Release Innovation Law Lab Files Lawsuit Demanding Transparency from ICE Over Detention Placement and Transfer Policies and Practices A lawsuit seeks transparency in ICE&rsquo;s decision making processes, information that the public is entitled to under the law. December 13, 2024 Resource Freedom To Thrive Webinar Innovation Law Lab teamed up with the Integrated Rural Strategies Group to host a webinar titled Freedom To Thrive, in support of the Anticarceral Legal Organizing program at Law Lab. December 13, 2024 News and Analysis Innovation Law Lab teamed up with the Integrated Rural Strategies Group to host a webinar titled Freedom To Thrive, in support of the Anti-carceral Legal Organizing program at Law Lab A webinar discussing discuss how immigration detention harms people inside AND outside its walls, and how organizing with all impacted communities is the best way to build pathways to end ICE detention so that everyone can thrive. December 4, 2024 News and Analysis Law Lab&rsquo;s fight to end ICE detention in NM: Campaign Update An update on the Innovation Law Lab's efforts to shut down detention facilities in New Mexico. October 18, 2024 News and Analysis Campaign Update: Law Lab&rsquo;s fight to end ICE detention in NM An update from the Innovation Law Lab's Anticarceral Legal Organizing (AcLO) work to shut down immigration detention centers in New Mexico April 24, 2024 News and Analysis Torrance County Commission Denies Torturous Conditions, Moves to Extend ICE Contract Torrance County Commissioners voted to allow County Manager Janice Barela to extend the operation of the Torrance County Detention Facility (TCDF) as an ICE jail for four months. April 24, 2024 News and Analysis Legal Challenge Prompts USCIS to Release Key Immigration Manuals to the Public As the result of a lawsuit filed by Innovation Law Lab and the National Immigration Litigation Alliance (NILA), two important immigration staff manuals being made available to the public. February 22, 2024 Press Release Innovation Law Lab Sues USCIS to Demand Transparency in the Expedited Removal Process Under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Innovation Law Lab demands that USCIS publicly disclose two specific manuals: the Credible Fear Procedures Manual (CFPM) and the Reasonable Fear Procedures Manual (RFPM). January 29, 2024 News and Analysis People in New Mexico Call for Investment in Dignity Not Detention The questions we&rsquo;ve learned to ask about the role that detention centers play in the communities that surround them. December 8, 2023 News and Analysis Alerts from TCDF: Sewage Flood, Retaliatory Violence by Guards There has been an increasing amount of reports from individuals detained at TCDF regarding lack of drinking water, cold indoor temperatures, lack of clean clothes and laundry, inedible food, and denial of outdoor recreation time. November 8, 2023 Press Release Immigrants Detained at Torrance County Detention Facility Sue ICE Over Sham Inspection We filed a class action lawsuit on behalf of individuals detained at TCDF, arguing that ICE wrongly recertified the facility as meeting detention standards, thus thwarting a federal law that would have required ICE to cancel its contract. November 6, 2023 Case Carlos Doe v. ICE We sued ICE for wrongly recertifying Torrance County Detention Facility in order to continue detaining immigrants there, despite knowledge that dangerous and deplorable conditions persisted. August 10, 2023 News and Analysis FOIA Production | Torrance County Detention Facility The Innovation Law Lab receives thousands of pages of documents from a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA). regarding the operation, conditions and inspections of the Torrance County Detention Facility (TCDF). June 29, 2023 Press Release New Report Outlines Recommendations for Rural Communities Looking to Transition Away From Prison Economies and Endemic Human Rights Violations A new report offers a resource for rural communities and lawmakers looking to move away from the impacts of immigration prisons. March 1, 2023 Press Release New Mexico Groups Call On DHS to Provide Asylum Seekers Relief From Torturous Conditions, Investigate Retaliation and Abuse at Torrance County Detention Facility Rights groups request immediate action to cease and investigate the dire conditions and other abusive and retaliatory tactics employed by CoreCivic personnel at the Torrance County Detention Facility in New Mexico. February 15, 2023 Press Release In New Report, Asylum Seekers Describe Sleep Deprivation, Torture Rooms, Rigged Deportation Process and Yet Another Attempted Suicide at Notorious Torrance County Detention Facility Hundreds of individual interviews and group discussions since the start of 2023 form the basis of the report&rsquo;s findings and paint a disturbing picture of misconduct by US Government officials and CoreCivic employees. February 1, 2023 Press Release Asylum Seekers Denied Basic Due Process and Access to Asylum at Torrance County Detention Facility The asylum seekers at TCDF are demanding that DHS rectify egregious violations of their basic due process rights, and allow them to access the asylum process. January 25, 2023 Press Release SB 172 aims to end civil immigration detention in New Mexico Senate Bill 172, an Intergovernmental Service Agreement (&ldquo;IGSA&rdquo;) ban bill, nicknamed the &ldquo;Dignity Not Detention&rdquo; bill, has been filed at the New Mexico Legislature. January 9, 2023 Press Release ICE Sends Roughly 100 Immigrants to Known Danger at Torrance County Detention Facility in New Mexico Immigrant rights groups report ICE's transfer of approximately 100 individuals to Torrance County Detention Facility, an immigration detention center notorious for dangerous conditions and abuse. December 8, 2022 Resource Open Letter from &ldquo;Los &Uacute;ltimos Guerreros,&rdquo; the Last People Detained by ICE at Torrance County Detention Facility A group that calls itself Los &Uacute;ltimos Guerreros writes a letter calling for for ICE to cancel any plans to bring anyone else to the Torrance County Detention Facility to suffer. December 8, 2022 Press Release Suicide Attempt at New Mexico ICE Detention Center Less Than 4 Months After Death by Suicide at Same Facility Already Under Intense Scrutiny for Chronic &amp; Severe Federal Standards Violations On November 30, 2022, Rafael Oliveira, a young man from Brazil, suffered a nonfatal suicide attempt while in ICE custody at the Torrance County Detention Facility. October 14, 2022 News and Analysis Lying and Denying: ICE &amp; CoreCivic at Torrance County Detention Facility ICE and CoreCivic continue to evade transparency, lie about the abuse and abhorrent conditions at Torrance County Detention Facility October 3, 2022 Press Release Advocates Demand Torrance County Detention Facility Be Shut Down And All Migrants Detained There Be Released Immediately In Light Of Damning New Report The OIG report confirms yet again that ICE and CoreCivic have knowingly kept migrants locked up under abhorrent conditions for years. September 28, 2022 Press Release Immigrants Detained at Torrance County Detention Facility in New Mexico Announce Hunger Strike, Issue Collective Protest Letter Immigrants at Torrance County Detention Facility in New Mexico stage a hunger strike to protest dangerous conditions and demand their release. August 27, 2022 Press Release Death of Brazilian Migrant in ICE Custody Predictable and Preventable Result of ICE and CoreCivic Abuse, Neglect and Dangerous Conditions at Torrance County CW: fatal suicide. Kesley Vial, a young man from Brazil, died of a fatal suicide attempt that occurred on August 17 while in ICE custody at the Torrance County Detention Facility (TCDF). July 29, 2022 News and Analysis VIDEO: PJ with our Anticarceral Legal Organizing Team at Imperial Regional Detention Facility Discusses toxic conditions faced by migrants detained at Imperial Regional Detention Facility. June 20, 2022 News and Analysis Anticarceral Legal Organizing at Torrance County Detention Facility Innovation Law Lab and EPIC support people detained by ICE at the abusive, remote Torrance facility in New Mexico. They provide legal aid, document severe rights violations, and advocate for releases, transparency, and ultimately shutting the detention center June 13, 2022 Press Release Advocacy group sues ICE to obtain records relating to dangerous conditions at Torrance County Detention Facility Innovation Law Lab is urgently seeking agency records that relate to ICE&rsquo;s defiance of the DHS OIG recommendations at Torrance County Detention Facility, as well as any efforts taken by the agency to remedy the dangerous conditions documented by the DHS OIG. May 17, 2022 News and Analysis What&rsquo;s Really Going On in Torrance? People at Torrance Detention face sewage, mold, unsafe water, and severe understaffing. Despite a watchdog&rsquo;s call to empty the facility, ICE sent in more people. Advocates seek records to expose conditions and demand transparency amid ongoing abuse and neglect May 9, 2022 Press Release Advocacy groups file records requests seeking transparency in troubled Torrance detention center TCDF, in Estancia, detains individuals on behalf of Torrance County, the U.S. Marshals Service and ICE. On behalf of Innovation Law Lab, the ACLU of New Mexico filed records requests regarding the operation, conditions and inspections of the Torrance County De May 3, 2022 News and Analysis Freedom! 73 Haitians Released from Torrance County Detention Facility in New Mexico Details the steps taken that resulted in the release of 73 Haitians detained at Torrance County Detention Facility. March 18, 2022 Press Release ACLU-NM and Immigrant Rights Groups Call for the Immediate Release of People Detained in Torrance County Detention Facility, and for the Termination of its ICE Contract Immigrant rights organizations are calling for the immediate release, not transfer, of people detained by ICE at the Torrance County Detention Facility following deeply disturbing findings announced by a federal watchdog agency. January 6, 2022 News and Analysis Law Lab's Anticarceral Legal Organizing Program Joins Partners &amp; Detained Migrants in Federal Complaint Discusses a federal complaint about health by nine people detained at the Imperial Regional Detention Facility in California's Imperial County. November 22, 2021 Press Release ICE Continues to Deny Haitians Access to Legal Support, Humane Conditions, and Release from Torrance County Detention Facility Immigrant rights advocates delivered a second demand letter to Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) after the agency failed to respond to a previous letter and continued to deny adequate access to legal support for a group of Haitian migrants. May 24, 2021 News and Analysis On the Termination of the ICE Contract with Irwin County Detention Center After years of organizing and advocacy by survivors of ICE abuse and those in solidarity with them, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) has announced the end of its immigrant incarceration contract with Irwin County Detention Center (ICDC). January 5, 2021 Resource New Report Documents Systemic Abuse at a New Mexico Immigrant Detention Center A report from Advocate Visitors with Immigrants in Detention, details human rights abuses at the Otero County Processing Center. The study found a shockingly high rate of complaints, conditions and violations consistent with definitions of torture. May 21, 2020 Press Release Law Lab Founder Stephen Manning recognized as a leading changemaker Founder and executive director of Innovation Law Lab recognized. November 27, 2018 News and Analysis Legal advocates win freedom from detention for asylum-seeking father&mdash; twice A story about an immigrant family that shows the difference legal representation and community support can make. September 3, 2018 News and Analysis Compassion, Immigration, and the Rule of Law Ethan Chua reflects on his time as an intern at Innovation Law Lab. September 1, 2018 News and Analysis Sheridan: When a Community Responds An account of the efforts to provide representation for Karandeep Singh and other asylum seekers who were imprisoned in Sheridan Federal Detention Center. August 8, 2018 News and Analysis The simple promise that ended mass deportation in Sheridan Because of the efforts of volunteers and community members, the Innovation Law Lab was able to alter the course of mass deportation in Sheridan, Oregon. July 30, 2018 News and Analysis Legal access to continue in Sheridan Recounts a crucial legal victory for Innovation Law Lab, ensuring clients detained in Sheridan continue to have access to legal counsel. July 14, 2018 News and Analysis Day 18: Update from Sheridan An account of the work undertaken since the Innovation Law Lab has been able to provide a legal presence at the Sheridan facility. July 7, 2018 News and Analysis An update from the inside A volunteer describes their time providing "Know Your Rights" training and connecting with individuals being held at Sheridan. June 21, 2018 News and Analysis Legal Teams Again Denied Access to Immigrants at Sheridan Prison Recounts repeated efforts of lawyers and community gain access to immigrants who are being held at Sheridan prison. June 19, 2018 News and Analysis FCI Sheridan Update June 18 | What Happened &amp; What's Next A review of events at FCI Sheridan, the Innovation Law Lab's strategy and next steps. June 18, 2018 News and Analysis Immigration experts and elected officials call for justice for immigrants detained at FCI Sheridan Describes efforts to connect immigrants being held at FCI Sheridan with pro bono representation. June 17, 2018 News and Analysis FCI Sheridan Update, What's Next, How to Get Involved A summary of the steps that nearly 300 volunteers have taken to support the legal defense work at FCI Sheridan. June 13, 2018 News and Analysis Community demands justice for immigrants at FCI Sheridan On the evening of June 11, 2018, concerned community members participated in a statewide organizing effort in response to the unjust detention of immigrants at the federal penitentiary in Sheridan. May 12, 2018 Resource Defend Everyone: Creating the Equity Corps of Oregon to Provide Universal Representation ECO Want to know more about our work? Sign up for our newsletter. First Name Last Name Your Email Your zipcode Leave this field blank About Careers, Jobs, Fellowships Contact Us Financials Designed with love.