Title: Federal law enforcement uses tear gas on anti-ICE protesters in Santa Ana, California
Authors: Sam Ribakoff

At protests in the majority Latino city of Santa Ana, California, on Monday, law enforcement officers used tear gas, pepper balls and flash bangs.

SANTA ANA, CALIFORNIA (CN) — After a weekend of raucous protests against federal immigration actions in Los Angeles, President Donald Trump on Monday deployed an additional 2,000 National Guard troops and 700 marines to the city, adding to the initial 2,000 Guards who started arriving Sunday.

Protests in the city were mostly peaceful Monday although officers shot less-lethal munitions into a crowd throwing water bottles outside the federal building in downtown LA in the evening.

Meanwhile, in nearby Santa Ana, a crowd of adults, teenagers, children and senior citizens assembled at the federal building there to protest the U.S. Customs and Enforcement raids around the majority Latino city in Orange County.

As Courthouse News attempted to speak to one protester who had given impassioned speeches to the gathered crowd, the conversation was constantly interrupted by federal law enforcement officers wildly firing volleys tear gas, pepper balls and flash bangs at the crowd of hundreds.

Anti-ICE protesters run through a cloud of tear gas thrown by federal law enforcement in downtown Santa Ana, California on June 9, 2025 (Sam Ribakoff/CNS)

A few protesters tried to put their bodies between unmarked white vans to stop what was presumed to be full of people detained in ICE raids but most simply carried signs and expressed their horror at seeing friends, neighbors and family members swept off the streets.

Law enforcement, some wearing Homeland Security Investigations insignia, some just wearing patches that read “police” without any further identification, most wearing face masks, responded to some protesters inching onto federal property and some throwing half empty plastic water bottles with more of the less-lethal munitions.

Protesters would retreat from the base of the steps of the building, then come back minutes later with the tear gas still lingering in the air, chanting slogans like "we’re not afraid,” “ICE out of OC,” and “chinga la migra," which roughly translates to "fuck the immigration service."

The cycle repeated multiple times throughout the late afternoon, with tear gas and pepper balls affecting protesters and assembled media alike.

Protesters flush mace deployed by federal agents out of the eyes of a fellow anti-ICE protester in Santa Ana, California, on June 9, 2025. (Sam Ribakoff / Courthouse News)

“I think it’s very unnecessary to do this to a community that’s peaceful and who all they want is to bring their families back,” said Santa Ana native Millie Carrillo. “It goes against what they all should be standing for … to protect and serve the community. Instead they’re fighting the community.”

Carillo held a sign with a number from the National Immigration Detention Hotline that provides free resources and abuse documentation support to people detained by immigration authorities in the hope that one of the detained people would see it and be able to use it.

“I feel this personally. I have a lot of family who are affected and afraid to leave the house. It’s disgusting and horrible to see people chased and dragged off the street," said Fran Sosa, 70, who's with an activist group called Refuse Fascism. "These are our neighbors and people who have the privilege of being out and protesting need to do this now. Not next month. Not two months from now. We do not know if there will be martial law declared in California. We need to act before fascism is consolidated in the United States. People have no idea what fascism is really like. That’s what I think people need to make sacrifices in any way they can now."

Federal law enforcement agents point less than lethal weapons at anti-ICE protesters in Santa Ana, California on June 9, 2025. (Sam Ribakoff/CNS)

During the early moments of the protest, federal agents maced Sosa.

“I couldn’t see anything for about 10 minutes,” she said. “But I have to say this. Everyone was so wonderful. Nobody ever left me alone. They gave me water and they took me across the street. That little coffee shop over there they closed the door and kept me safe and brought me water. I really appreciate it.”