ICE arrests parent near elementary school in Encinitas | KPBS Public Media Search Query Show Search News Local National International Noticias en español Investigations North County South Bay All News Sections Local National International Noticias en español Investigations North County South Bay All News Sections Featured Projects Data Visualization Projects Game-Time Decision Best of 2025 KPBS Families One of Their Own One Small Step Public Matters Data Visualization Projects Game-Time Decision Best of 2025 KPBS Families One of Their Own One Small Step Public Matters Arts &amp; Culture Arts &amp; Culture Stories Arts Calendar Black Arts &amp; Culture Holiday Gift Guide One Book, One San Diego Weekend Arts Preview Soccer a la Frontera Cinema Junkie The Finest Podcast Freeway Exit Podcast The Parker Edison Project Podcast Port of Entry Podcast Everybody&#x27;s Doing It With Miss Lolly Podcast Voices del Valle Podcast Arts &amp; Culture Stories Arts Calendar Black Arts &amp; Culture Holiday Gift Guide One Book, One San Diego Weekend Arts Preview Soccer a la Frontera Cinema Junkie The Finest Podcast Freeway Exit Podcast The Parker Edison Project Podcast Port of Entry Podcast Everybody&#x27;s Doing It With Miss Lolly Podcast Voices del Valle Podcast TV &amp; Radio Watch Live Stream KPBS+ Watch KPBS On-Demand KPBS Evening Edition KPBS Midday Edition KPBS News: This Week KPBS Roundtable Kids TV Podcasts Radio Reading Service Radio Shows Radio 89.5 Schedule TV Highlights TV Schedules TV Shows Classical San Diego Schedule Watch Live Stream KPBS+ Watch KPBS On-Demand KPBS Evening Edition KPBS Midday Edition KPBS News: This Week KPBS Roundtable Kids TV Podcasts Radio Reading Service Radio Shows Radio 89.5 Schedule TV Highlights TV Schedules TV Shows Classical San Diego Schedule Podcasts One of Their Own Voices del Valle ScreenTime The Finest Rap Diego Free Jane Stripper Energy San Diego News Now KPBS Midday Edition Freeway Exit KPBS Roundtable Cinema Junkie KPBS Investigates Port of Entry The Parker Edison Project Everybody&#x27;s Doing It With Miss Lolly San Diego Conversations The KPBS Summer Music Series Rad Scientist My First Day Device One of Their Own Voices del Valle ScreenTime The Finest Rap Diego Free Jane Stripper Energy San Diego News Now KPBS Midday Edition Freeway Exit KPBS Roundtable Cinema Junkie KPBS Investigates Port of Entry The Parker Edison Project Everybody&#x27;s Doing It With Miss Lolly San Diego Conversations The KPBS Summer Music Series Rad Scientist My First Day Device Support KPBS Federal Funding Update Membership Information KPBS Passport Producers Club Major Giving The Gratitude Collective Vehicle Donation Giving Property Corporate Support Other Ways to Give Federal Funding Update Membership Information KPBS Passport Producers Club Major Giving The Gratitude Collective Vehicle Donation Giving Property Corporate Support Other Ways to Give Events Events Calendar Valentine&#x27;s Day Submit an Event KPBS Rentals Events Calendar Valentine&#x27;s Day Submit an Event KPBS Rentals Help Menu Show Search Search Query Give Now Play Live Radio Next Up: 0:00 0:00 Available On Air Stations On Air Now Playing KPBS Radio Full Schedule On Air Now Playing Classical San Diego Watch Live All Streams News Local National International Noticias en español Investigations North County South Bay All News Sections Local National International Noticias en español Investigations North County South Bay All News Sections Featured Projects Data Visualization Projects Game-Time Decision Best of 2025 KPBS Families One of Their Own One Small Step Public Matters Data Visualization Projects Game-Time Decision Best of 2025 KPBS Families One of Their Own One Small Step Public Matters Arts &amp; Culture Arts &amp; Culture Stories Arts Calendar Black Arts &amp; Culture Holiday Gift Guide One Book, One San Diego Weekend Arts Preview Soccer a la Frontera Cinema Junkie The Finest Podcast Freeway Exit Podcast The Parker Edison Project Podcast Port of Entry Podcast Everybody&#x27;s Doing It With Miss Lolly Podcast Voices del Valle Podcast Arts &amp; Culture Stories Arts Calendar Black Arts &amp; Culture Holiday Gift Guide One Book, One San Diego Weekend Arts Preview Soccer a la Frontera Cinema Junkie The Finest Podcast Freeway Exit Podcast The Parker Edison Project Podcast Port of Entry Podcast Everybody&#x27;s Doing It With Miss Lolly Podcast Voices del Valle Podcast TV &amp; Radio Watch Live Stream KPBS+ Watch KPBS On-Demand KPBS Evening Edition KPBS Midday Edition KPBS News: This Week KPBS Roundtable Kids TV Podcasts Radio Reading Service Radio Shows Radio 89.5 Schedule TV Highlights TV Schedules TV Shows Classical San Diego Schedule Watch Live Stream KPBS+ Watch KPBS On-Demand KPBS Evening Edition KPBS Midday Edition KPBS News: This Week KPBS Roundtable Kids TV Podcasts Radio Reading Service Radio Shows Radio 89.5 Schedule TV Highlights TV Schedules TV Shows Classical San Diego Schedule Podcasts One of Their Own Voices del Valle ScreenTime The Finest Rap Diego Free Jane Stripper Energy San Diego News Now KPBS Midday Edition Freeway Exit KPBS Roundtable Cinema Junkie KPBS Investigates Port of Entry The Parker Edison Project Everybody&#x27;s Doing It With Miss Lolly San Diego Conversations The KPBS Summer Music Series Rad Scientist My First Day Device One of Their Own Voices del Valle ScreenTime The Finest Rap Diego Free Jane Stripper Energy San Diego News Now KPBS Midday Edition Freeway Exit KPBS Roundtable Cinema Junkie KPBS Investigates Port of Entry The Parker Edison Project Everybody&#x27;s Doing It With Miss Lolly San Diego Conversations The KPBS Summer Music Series Rad Scientist My First Day Device Support KPBS Federal Funding Update Membership Information KPBS Passport Producers Club Major Giving The Gratitude Collective Vehicle Donation Giving Property Corporate Support Other Ways to Give Federal Funding Update Membership Information KPBS Passport Producers Club Major Giving The Gratitude Collective Vehicle Donation Giving Property Corporate Support Other Ways to Give Events Events Calendar Valentine&#x27;s Day Submit an Event KPBS Rentals Events Calendar Valentine&#x27;s Day Submit an Event KPBS Rentals Help Border &amp; Immigration ICE arrests parent near elementary school in Encinitas By Gustavo Solis / Investigative Border Reporter Contributors: Charlotte Radulovich / Video Journalist Published&nbsp;August 20, 2025 at 6:28 PM PDT Updated&nbsp;August 25, 2025 at 3:07 PM PDT Facebook WhatsApp Email Listen &bull; 1:21 Federal immigration agents arrested a man near Park Dale Lane Elementary School in Encinitas Wednesday morning. This is the third confirmed immigration arrest near a San Diego County School this month. Federal agents from Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives arrested a man at the intersection of Park Dale Lane and Village Parkway around 7:30 a.m. Wednesday. The man was on his way to work. A video shared by the North County advocacy group Alianza Comunitaria shows bystanders asking to see an arrest warrant identifying the man. In the background, an agent said, "It's a different guy." Advertisement Become a KPBS sponsor Later in the video, a bystander said, "You said there would be a warrant." The ICE agent responded, "Not for him." Another video shows agents forcing the man into a truck as his wife and young daughter cry out for him. Encinitas Union School District officials condemned the arrest. In a letter to parents, officials confirmed the man’s daughter is a student in the district. “We are alarmed and disturbed by this event and its impact on children and families,” the district’s letter said. State Sen. Catherine Blakespear, D-Encinitas, and Congressman Mike Levin, D-49, criticized ICE for the arrest. Advertisement Become a KPBS sponsor Blakespear called it, “inhumane, barbaric and lawless,” while Levin demanded ICE provide, “a full and immediate explanation.” The agency sent KPBS a statement Wednesday night confirming the arrest and said the man was undocumented and from Guatemala. ICE said in the statement the man was alone in the car when he was stopped and that the woman and child seen in the video arrived at the scene as the arrest was taking place. "ICE San Diego finds it unfortunate that an individual chose to insert a child into an active law enforcement situation," ICE said in the statement. ICE went on to criticize statements released by public officials "before the facts of this case were fully known." As the videos circulated online, neighbors raised more than $25,000 so far to cover the family’s legal and basic living expenses through a crowdsourcing website. “This working father and his family needs support from our community,” the fundraiser states. Wednesday morning’s arrest is at least the third time federal immigration agents have arrested people near local schools. Similar enforcement tactics happened in Chula Vista and Linda Vista. News reports show similar arrests near schools in Oregon, Texas, Illinois and South Carolina. In January, President Donald Trump rescinded a Biden-era policy that protected schools, churches and hospitals from immigration enforcement. Earlier this week, advocates with Unión del Barrio and the Association of Raza Educators launched “community patrols” near schools aimed at shielding parents and students from immigration enforcement. Volunteers conducting the patrols are trained to identify undercover ICE vehicles and broadcast their location so people can avoid the area. Updated: August 21, 2025 at 1:26 PM PDT Editor's note: The story has been updated with comments from ICE that came after the story was published. Tags Border &amp; Immigration North County Border Immigration Gustavo Solis email Gustavo became the Investigative Border Reporter at KPBS in 2021. He was born in Mexico City, grew up in San Diego and has two passports to prove it. He graduated from Columbia University’s School of Journalism in 2013 and has worked in New York City, Miami, Palm Springs, Los Angeles, and San Diego. In 2018 he was part of a team of reporters who shared a Pulitzer Prize for explanatory journalism. When he’s not working - and even sometimes when he should be - Gustavo is surfing on both sides of the border. See stories by Gustavo Solis Trending 🐴 Wieghorst Museum 🩺 Kaiser Permanente strike 🚲 Oceanside e-bike seizure Sign up for our newsletters! Keep up with all the latest news, arts and culture, and TV highlights from KPBS. Email address * Today's Top Stories TV Highlights The Catch Up KPBS/Arts KPBS' Most Popular KPBS Streaming Picks North County Focus Subscribe LATEST IN PODCASTS Proposed data center brings controversy to Imperial County LATEST IN EVENTS Firefighters for Hope – Cancer Walk LATEST IN TV HIGHLIGHTS FINDING YOUR ROOTS: The Road We Took Most Popular 40 years after Challenger: Lingering guilt and lessons learned Senate Democrats and Republicans call for investigation into killing of Alex Pretti 5 things to know about the latest Minneapolis shooting U.S. rock climber Alex Honnold reaches top of Taipei 101 skyscraper without ropes Videos and eyewitnesses refute federal account of Minneapolis shooting Fact-based local news is essential KPBS keeps you informed with local stories you need to know about — with no paywall. Our news is free for everyone because people like you help fund it. Without federal funding, community support is our lifeline. Make a gift to protect the future of KPBS. Donate Border Brief We're breaking down the complexities of immigration in the Trump era — from the mass deportation campaign to cross-border economics. In each episode hear from experts and dive into the data. Watch now → KPBS News: Public Safety Policy KPBS has created a public safety coverage policy to guide decisions on what stories we prioritize, as well as whose narratives we need to include to tell complete stories that best serve our audiences. This policy was shaped through months of training with the Poynter Institute and feedback from the community. You can read the full policy here. Read → More News Border &amp; Immigration After second Minneapolis killing, San Diego elected officials say ‘Rubicon crossed’ and ICE is ‘executing American citizens’ Education Affordable housing for staff on San Diego school board agenda Environment Air Pollution Control District distributes 10,000 air purifiers in South Bay Quality of Life San Diego County open for Valentine&#x27;s Day weddings instagram tiktok youtube facebook About About Us &amp; Mission Newsletters Careers FCC &amp; Financial Mobile Apps Press Releases Privacy Policy Staff Terms of Service Help Audience and Member Services Closed Captioning Contact Us FAQs How do I listen? Passport Help Help Center Give Corporate Support Donate Membership Information Other Ways to Give Tax ID Vehicle Donation