--> What kinds of less-lethal weapons have ICE agents been using in the Chicago area? | Chicago Sun-Times Donate Immigration Pellets and peppers, grenades and gas: A look at the weapons ICE uses in Broadview and Chicago Assorted riot control projectiles collected by Sun‑Times journalists while reporting in Broadview. Sun‑Times staff Tear gas, rubber bullets and pepper balls have played a key role in agents’ attempts to quell protests — but what are they, and what can they do? By Bob Chiarito Nov. 2, 2025, 5:30 a.m. Share options Share Link Email Bluesky Facebook Reddit LinkedIn 01 Introduction 02 What are pepper balls? 03 “A dangerous situation” 04 What is tear gas? 05 What are rubber bullets? 06 Reducing the need Vans with detainees leave ICE’s processing facility at 1930 Beach St. in Broadview on June 6. Anthony Vazquez/​Sun‑Times For almost two decades, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement operated its facility in Broadview without much notice, handling immigration check-ins and other administrative tasks. Most attention had come from a handful of faith-based objectors praying outside — until this fall. After the agency told village officials the Beach Street building would be used for what Mayor Katrina Thompson described as a “large-scale enforcement campaign” operating seven days a week, protesters started to show up in droves. Many held signs and yelled at ICE agents who came and went from the facility. Others sat on the ground and attempted to block government vehicles from entering and leaving. In response, agents in masks and full tactical gear fired pepper balls, tear gas and other “less lethal” munitions, causing injuries and property damage while chemical irritants blew into the residential neighborhood just a couple blocks away. In late September, ICE erected a steel fence that stretched across Beach Street without permission or knowledge of Broadview officials. The fence did keep protesters from blocking the building’s driveway, but protesters instead attempted to block government vehicles at Harvard Street and 25th Avenue. This moved confrontations closer to residential homes, causing even more chemical irritants to blow into the neighborhood. After a lawsuit, the fence was removed on Oct. 14. By early October, Illinois State Police took over crowd control near the Broadview ICE facility. Until November, there were no reports of those officers using tear gas and pepper balls. Federal agents have continued to use the less-lethal deterrents in several Chicago neighborhoods, however — something a federal judge has since addressed by ordering federal agents to give two warnings before using tear gas or similar munitions. Smoke fills the air outside an industrial building near 2000 S. 25th Ave. in Broadview on Sept. 26. Anthony Vazquez/Sun-Times What are pepper balls? --> --> Unlike typical self-defense pepper sprays, pepper balls are meant to be used at long range. Agents fire these from guns similar to paintball guns, and the balls themselves can cause the same kinds of welts and other injuries that paintballs do. The balls burst open on impact and release a fine powder. The powder’s key ingredient is derived from capsaicin — the active component that gives chili peppers their heat. A federal agent stands atop the ICE processing center in Broadview on Sept. 22 and aims a riot control weapon at protesters. Tyler Pasciak LaRiviere/​Sun‑Times An expended pepper ball lies on the pavement near the ICE facility on Sept. 21. Jim Vondruska/​For the Sun‑Times Brian Rivera, a 37-year-old movie theater worker who lives in Chicago, was part of a Sept. 26 protest in Broadview when he was hit twice by pepper balls, once in the chest and once in the shoulder. “The powder sucks,” Rivera said. “It’s like if you’re eating the spiciest food on earth. Instead of feeling it in the tongue area, you feel it in your eyes and lungs.” “A dangerous situation” An officer holds a grenade launcher while on the roof of an ICE processing center in Broadview on Sept. 26. Anthony Vazquez/​Sun‑Times In late September, Broadview Police Chief Thomas Mills expressed concern over federal agents’ use of “less lethal” munitions in the western suburb. “We are experiencing an immediate health safety crisis,” Mills said. “The deployment of tear gas, pepper spray, mace and rubber bullets by ICE near the processing center in the village of Broadview is creating a dangerous situation for the community and all first responders.” Mills said several of his officers were affected by tear gas fumes, and nearby residents described similar things. Jamie Carr, a 38-year-old sandwich store manager who lives less than a block from where the clashes were taking place, said it caused her to miss work and affected the health of her 18-year-old son. “The tear gas was coming into my house and caused my son’s asthma to act up,” Carr said. “It’s been crazy, every Friday there's chaos over there. Before all this, I didn’t even know that ICE had a building over there.” What is tear gas? --> --> The terms “tear gas” and “Mace” describe several types of chemicals that temporarily make people unable to function by causing irritation to the eyes, mouth, throat, lungs and skin. Despite the name, tear gas generally is an aerosol of a solid or a liquid. It causes crying, coughing, difficulty breathing, pain in the eyes and temporary blindness. Symptoms usually start within 30 seconds of exposure. Protesters attempt to flee after federal agents use tear gas during a skirmish outside the ICE facility in Broadview on Sept. 19. Ashlee Rezin/​Sun‑Times Curtis Evans, a 65-year-old military veteran from Evanston, said he reverted back to his training when he was tear-gassed on Sept. 19. He was in a group of protesters attempting to block an ICE vehicle from leaving the agency’s building in Broadview. “As soon as the tear gas hit, it was like a core memory of being in the Marine Corps,” Evans said, recalling training exercises that used tear gas. “Immediately I realized, OK, this is designed to do exactly what it is doing, it puts your body into a panic mode. So, all of your alarm systems go off, and it feels like it’s horrible. It feels like you’re in mortal danger when in fact you’re not.” Evans said tear gas and pepper balls are like two different powerful spices. Pepper balls’ effects are “more up into your nose and throat,” he said, “whereas the tear gas is in your eyes and lungs. They’re equally bad.” What are rubber bullets? --> --> There are several types of munition that get referred to as “rubber bullets.” One type, known as “stinger” rounds, consists of rubber balls the size of blueberries. These are encased in a shell and released when fired, much like buckshot when fired from a shotgun. “Stingers are for crowd control,” said Travis Norton, a retired police lieutenant in California and consultant for law enforcement agencies about crowd control techniques. “Those can be problematic because you don’t have much control over where they go.” A protester puts up his arm as protection from rubber bullets near 2000 S. 25th Ave. in Broadview on Sept. 26. Anthony Vazquez/​Sun‑Times The other type of rubber bullet in common use in the Chicago area this fall has been the 40 mm baton round, which an agent fires from a grenade launcher. These larger projectiles resemble stubby darts with plastic bodies and round foam noses. Joselyn Walsh, a 31-year-old researcher from Chicago, was playing an acoustic guitar at a Broadview protest Sept. 26 when she said an ICE agent fired a 40 mm rubber baton at her. “They know music draws people together, so maybe that’s what drew their attention,” Walsh said. The projectile went through both sides of her guitar and hit her in the leg. Federal prosecutors charged Walsh and five others in late October with conspiring to impede a federal officer. Reducing the need According to Norton, the retired officer and consultant, whether a weapon is “less lethal” often depends on training and intent. “The challenge with the federal officers is that they don’t have the training and experience with this stuff like a lot of local and state agencies will,” Norton said. He added that typically law enforcement officers are only trained for a day on the use of these weapons and that the damage to people hit can depend on the intent of the officer firing on them. “An inanimate object is not inherently lethal or less lethal. It’s the intent of the operator,” Norton said. “For example, if I have a gun and I shoot you in the foot with the intent of not killing you, is my gun less lethal? But if I take a 40 mm [rubber baton] and shoot you in the face with the intent of killing you, is that less lethal launcher now a lethal launcher?” Editor’s note: On Nov. 10, this story was updated to reflect recent use of tear gas and pepper balls in Broadview by the Illinois State Police. Story editor: Justin Myers Design and development: Andjela Padejski and Justin Myers Email Facebook Twitter Copy Link URL Copied