105 still in ICE custody after raid on illegal Colorado Springs club Skip to content All Sections Subscribe Now 28&deg;F Tuesday, January 27th 2026 Digital Replica Edition Home Page News Latest Headlines Colorado News Politics Crime and Public Safety Courts National News World News Education Health Environment Transportation Housing News Obituaries Photos Video Your Hub Weather Sports Sports Sports Columnists Denver Broncos Colorado Rockies Denver Nuggets Colorado Avalanche Colorado Rapids Olympics College Sports Preps Betting Golf Boxing / MMA Sports on TV/Radio Sports Podcasts Olympics Business Business Real Estate Airlines Economy Energy Retail Technology Best Reviews The Know The Know Food and Drink Art Culture Movies TV &amp; Streaming Music Theater Travel Family Friendly Bars Beer Outdoors Outdoors Hiking Fall Colors Cycling Fitness Running Camping Fishing Hunting Water Sports Skiing Snowboarding Winter Sports Opinion Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Cartoons Endorsements Obituaries Obituaries News Obituaries Place an Obituary Things To Do Things To Do Event Calendar Television Listings Comics Games Horoscopes Advice Home &amp; Garden Free and Cheap Cannabis Recipes Denver Post Store Classifieds Classifieds Automotive Homes Jobs Branded Content Paid Content by Brandpoint Subscribe Log In Logout Sign up for Newsletters and Alerts Sign Up Colorado News | 105 remain in ICE custody after raid on illegal&#8230; Share this: Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Subscribe Log In Account Settings Contact Us Log Out Spoof a user Sign up for Newsletters and Alerts Sign Up Subscribe Log In Search 28&deg;F Tuesday, January 27th 2026 Digital Replica Edition Colorado News Latest Headlines Colorado Politics Crime Nation World Education Health Environment Transportation Housing News Obituaries Trending: Snow totals ❄️ Broncos’ AFC title game mistakes News Colorado News News News Based on facts, either observed and verified directly by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. 105 remain in ICE custody after raid on illegal Colorado Springs nightclub 17 military members confirmed inside the club as security and patrons, DEA says Share this: Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X The underground nightclub raided by police, sheriff&#8217;s deputies and federal agents on Sunday, April 27, 2025, moved between multiple Colorado Springs addresses, officials said. (Photo courtesy of DEA). By Lauren Penington | lpenington@denverpost.com PUBLISHED: April 29, 2025 at 10:21 AM MDT Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... More than 100 people detained during a Sunday raid of an illegal Colorado Springs nightclub remain in U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement custody Tuesday. ICE did not respond to requests for comment from The Denver Post, but an unidentified spokesperson told CBS Colorado that the number of detainees had dropped from 114 to 105. The agency did not explain why that number dropped or specify if those nine people had been released. At least two other people were arrested by Colorado Springs officers during the raid, police department spokesperson Ira Cronin said. Cronin said one was arrested on a warrant for failing to appear in Adams County Court and the other had a warrant out for their arrest for third-degree assault, criminal mischief and child abuse. &#8220;The investigation into activity at the underground club is continuing, as we anticipate there will be more arrests made in the future tied to criminal activity at this location,&#8221; Cronin said. The El Paso County Sheriff&#8217;s Office said deputies did not arrest anyone and were there to assist other agencies. Local law enforcement received numerous 911 calls from people in the area about shootings outside the club, drug trafficking and overdoses during the months-long investigation leading up to the raid, said Jonathan Pullen, special agent in charge of the DEA’s Rocky Mountain Division, in a Monday evening interview with NewsNation . Pullen called the club a &#8220;den of iniquity.&#8221; He said it had moved between multiple Colorado Springs addresses, but had been inside the building raided Sunday for several months. The club was put on the DEA&#8217;s radar, and agents started conducting surveillance and undercover work when it entered the building at 296 South Academy, he said. Immigrants from Guatemala, Cuba, El Salvador, Mexico, Venezuela, Colombia, Nicaragua, Chile and Honduras were all inside the nightclub when it was raided, Pullen said. While agents reportedly saw members of the Tren de Aragua, MS-13 and Hell’s Angels gangs frequent the Colorado Springs club, it&#8217;s unclear whether any were inside during the Sunday operation, Pullen said. Pullen said undercover agents saw prostitution, drug trafficking and &#8220;crimes of violence&#8221; inside the building &#8212; crimes that multiple active duty military members who were found inside the nightclub when it was raided were allegedly involved in. U.S. Army investigating presence of service members The Department of the Army Criminal Investigation Division is working with the DEA to investigate the military members involved, but declined to release additional information Monday, citing the ongoing investigation. Pullen told NewsNation that 17 military members were inside the club. It remains unclear how many were working security and how many were patrons. At least some of the military members were stationed at Fort Carson south of Colorado Springs, an unidentified spokesperson for the Army base confirmed Tuesday. &#8220;We acknowledge that there were some Fort Carson service members present at the location during the operation,&#8221; the spokesperson said in an emailed statement to The Post. &#8220;Each person involved in this incident is presumed innocent until proven guilty. We will look at everyone’s situation on a case-by-case basis.&#8221; During military investigations, a service member’s conduct is judged against the Uniform Code of Military Justice , a set of rules that applies to all U.S. military branches and personnel. Violations of that code are considered crimes by military standards. More than 114 people were detained by federal immigration officials inside an illegal Colorado Springs nightclub early Sunday morning, according to the Drug Enforcement Administration. (Photo courtesy of the DEA). Activists, local Democrats push back Local activists with the Colorado Springs People&#8217;s Coalition condemned the raid in a statement on social media and called on ICE to release the names of all 114 people detained. The group plans to gather at 27 E. Vermijo Ave., outside of the El Paso County Sheriff&#8217;s Office in Colorado Springs, at 3:30 p.m. Tuesday to protest against the raid. &#8220;We will not sit idly by as our city and county law enforcement collaborate with federal agencies to detain and deport our parents, siblings, partners and children,&#8221; the group stated . &#8220;When immigrant rights are under attack, we fight back!&#8221; The El Paso County Democratic Party also spoke out against the raid. Party leaders said in a statement they were concerned about public comments made by Mayor Yemi Mobolade and the El Paso County Board of Commissioners about the raid. &#8220;City and county leadership failed their constituents by refusing to call for restraint, compassion or due process for the very residents they represent,&#8221; party officials said in the statement. &#8220;At a time when U.S. residents are being wrongly detained by ICE and subjected to brutal prison conditions in countries like El Salvador, it is especially shocking to see our city and county governments provide cover for rogue police forces by publicly praising them.&#8221; Party officials said they stand in solidarity with local and state immigration rights groups and are &#8220;currently engaged in consultations to determine how we can best support ongoing legal efforts to defend due process and protect the rights and safety of all our residents.&#8221; Sheriffs supports immigration crackdown In addition to Mobolade and the Board of Commissioners, multiple law enforcement agencies involved in the Sunday raid spoke out in support of the operation. &#8220;I am committed to the safety of our citizens. My office will continue working with our federal partners to ensure dangerous criminals&#8230; are held accountable,&#8221; El Paso County Sheriff Joseph Roybal said in a statement on social media. Related Articles Arapahoe County teen found Man shot by Edgewater police in Wheat Ridge has died Are stadium food and beer prices too high? Colorado lawmakers unveil bills targeting costs. U.S. negotiating for release of Colorado man detained by Taliban for past year Rescue helicopters sent twice to evacuate 4 frostbitten skiers from Colorado mountains Douglas County Sheriff Darren Weekly said that Colorado, without question, is &#8220;a hub for illegal immigration,&#8221; pointing to Denver&#8217;s policies that limit its cooperation with federal immigration enforcement agencies and &#8220;radical legislation&#8221; from the state legislature. President Donald Trump on Monday signed an executive order targeting states and cities &#8220;that obstruct the enforcement of federal immigration laws.&#8221; Though the order doesn&#8217;t name Denver, it directs government officials to publish lists of “sanctuary city” jurisdictions, or places where local authorities often don’t cooperate in enforcing federal immigration regulations, according to the Associated Press . Those places will then be punished by losses in funding, grants and contracts, according to the order. The Trump administration has already rescinded about $24 million in federal grants from Denver that were intended to cover what the city has already spent to shelter migrants between 2022 and 2024, including many sent by Texas Gov. Greg Abbott. The Federal Emergency Management Agency previously awarded Denver $32 million but has only sent $8 million. According to a letter obtained by The Post , it plans to leave the other $24 million unfulfilled. It&#8217;s unclear if federal officials will also require Denver to return the $8 million already received. Get more Colorado news by signing up for our daily Your Morning Dozen email newsletter. Share this: Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Policies Report an Error Contact Us Submit a News Tip RevContent Feed Most Popular Most Popular Denver metro school delays and closures for Jan. 26, 2026 Denver metro school delays and closures for Jan. 26, 2026 Rescue helicopters sent twice to evacuate 4 frostbitten skiers from Colorado mountains Rescue helicopters sent twice to evacuate 4 frostbitten skiers from Colorado mountains Renck: Broncos&#8217; Sean Payton puts blame where it belongs — on himself Renck: Broncos&#039; Sean Payton puts blame where it belongs — on himself Keeler: If Bo Nix plays in AFC Championship, Broncos don&#8217;t just beat Patriots — they destroy them Keeler: If Bo Nix plays in AFC Championship, Broncos don&#039;t just beat Patriots — they destroy them Parker Gabriel&#8217;s 7 Thoughts: Weeklong Sean Payton masterclass followed by Broncos&#8217; AFC title game mistakes will sting forever Parker Gabriel&#039;s 7 Thoughts: Weeklong Sean Payton masterclass followed by Broncos&#039; AFC title game mistakes will sting forever Colorado snow totals for Jan. 25, 2026 Colorado snow totals for Jan. 25, 2026 Colorado needs a graduated income tax because we can’t rely on Washington anymore (Opinion) Colorado needs a graduated income tax because we can’t rely on Washington anymore (Opinion) Should Nuggets take extra precautions with Nikola Jokic after what happened to Aaron Gordon? Should Nuggets take extra precautions with Nikola Jokic after what happened to Aaron Gordon? Keeler: Broncos should spend Russell Wilson money on getting Bo Nix receivers without butterfingers Keeler: Broncos should spend Russell Wilson money on getting Bo Nix receivers without butterfingers Asking Eric: Wife wants out of marriage, but husband is sick Asking Eric: Wife wants out of marriage, but husband is sick More in Colorado News Arapahoe County teen found Man shot by Edgewater police in Wheat Ridge has died Are stadium food and beer prices too high? Colorado lawmakers unveil bills targeting costs. U.S. negotiating for release of Colorado man detained by Taliban for past year 2025 April 29 Subscribe News Alerts Submit a News Tip Member Services Become a Member Digital Subscription FAQ Place a Hold Digital Replica Edition Sitemap Classifieds Autos Real Estate Jobs Contact Us Careers Denver Post Store Place an Obituary Advertise With Us Network Advertising Privacy Policy Accessibility Today’s Front Page Back Issues Archives Mobile Apps Subscribe Now Terms of Use Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences California Notice at Collection Notice of Financial Incentive Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information Arbitration Site Map Ethics Policy Powered by WordPress.com VIP Copyright &copy; 2026 MediaNews Group Close