Title: Maps and photos show how the Los Angeles ICE protests unfolded
Authors: Rhona, Taylor, Visual Data Journalist, Taylor Johnston Is A Visual Data Journalist Working With The Cbs News, Stations Data Team., Read Full Bio, Grace, Senior Visual Data Journalist, Data Team Coordinator, Grace Manthey Is The Senior Visual Data Journalist

About 700 Marines completed training and could be deployed to the Los Angeles area by Friday, as protests continued for a sixth consecutive day. More than 850 people have been arrested in Los Angeles County since the demonstrations over federal immigration enforcement began last Friday. The protests have also spread to other cities across the nation.

Here's a timeline of how the protests have unfolded in multiple locations around L.A..

Note: All times below are in Pacific time.

Wednesday, June 11

Wednesday morning

Los Angeles Mayor Karen Bass said in an interview with CBS News Los Angeles that "there was no looting, there was no violence, there was no vandalism" on the city's first night of the 8 p.m. to 6 a.m. curfew. Bass said the curfew will be implemented daily until it's no longer needed.

Wednesday afternoon

The LAPD said multiple groups of people were marching through downtown Los Angeles. Small groups also gathered in Paramount and Inglewood, CBS News Los Angeles reported.

Around 6 p.m.

Protests continued in downtown Los Angeles, with some people throwing fireworks and rocks at officers, the LAPD said.

Around 8 p.m.

A group of demonstrators in downtown Los Angeles marched outside of the curfew zone as the curfew went into effect. Multiple people who remained in the curfew zone were arrested about 20 minutes after curfew.

Wednesday night

About 700 Marines completed training and will be deployed to the Los Angeles area within the next two days, according to the U.S. Northern Command. Officials said the training included de-escalation and crowd control.

Tuesday, June 10

Tuesday morning

About 700 Marines arrived in the Los Angeles area under orders from President Trump, joining approximately 2,100 National Guard members tasked with protecting federal immigration officials and other federal law enforcement. Officials said the deployment is estimated to cost the Pentagon around $134 million.

Tuesday afternoon

Protests continued for the fifth day in a row as dozens of people gathered near the Metropolitan Detention Center in downtown Los Angeles.

Protesters and law enforcement officers outside the Metropolitan Detention Center in Los Angeles on June 9, 2025. Joshua Lott/The Washington Post via Getty Images

Around 4 pm, a small crowd entered the 101 Freeway and was met by California Highway Patrol officers who stopped traffic and tried to prevent the group from moving farther along the roadway. CBS News Los Angeles reported the group accessed the highway through a hole cut in a chainlink fence, bypassing off-ramps and on-ramps blocked by law enforcement.

Around 6 p.m.

Los Angeles Mayor Karen Bass issued a curfew for downtown Los Angeles beginning at 8 p.m. and ending at 6 a.m.. Bass said in a press conference the curfew was implemented "to stop the vandalism, to stop the looting."

Around 7:30 p.m.

People threw projectiles toward National Guard troops outside the Edward R. Roybal Federal Building in downtown Los Angeles, CBS News Los Angeles reported. The crowd began to disperse about a half hour later after dozens of LAPD officers arrived.

Around 9 p.m.

The LAPD said "mass arrests are being initiated" after groups of people continued to gather in downtown Los Angeles despite the curfew.

Around 11 p.m.

Most of the people gathered in downtown Los Angeles left the area.

Monday, June 9

Protesters gathered for the fourth consecutive day in downtown Los Angeles, with most demonstrations taking place outside the Robert Young Federal Building, where some of the National Guard troops are stationed. The LAPD later confirmed that more than 100 people were arrested Monday, most for failure to disperse in the downtown area. There was one arrest for assault with a deadly weapon and 14 on allegations of looting.

Around 11:45 a.m.

California Gov. Gavin Newsom said on X that California was suing the Trump administration over its order to deploy the state's National Guard troops to respond to the protests. In the lawsuit filed in federal court, attorneys for the state said President Trump "unlawfully bypassed" the governor by putting National Guard troops under federal control without his permission.

Monday afternoon

The military said it activated around 700 active-duty Marines to join National Guard troops in the Los Angeles area, the U.S. Northern Command said in a statement.

Around 5:15 p.m.

Pentagon chief spokesman Sean Parnell said on X that the Department of Defense will mobilize an additional 2,000 California National Guard members.

Around 5:30 p.m.

The demonstration outside the Robert Young Federal Building, which had remained largely peaceful on Monday, briefly escalated when LAPD officers began to push the crowd from the area, sparking clashes between some protesters in the crowd and police. CBS News Los Angeles reported that officers tried to disperse crowds by firing rubber munitions and pepper-filled rounds.

Around 11:30 p.m.

The majority of protesters had cleared the area, although some remaining people were seen setting fires and forming barricades.

A demonstrator waves a Mexican flag as a fire that was set on San Pedro street burns as protesters continue to clash with the Los Angeles Police Department in downtown Los Angeles due to the immigration raids in L.A. on Monday, June 9, 2025. Jason Armond / Los Angeles Times via Getty Images

Sunday, June 8

Sunday morning

National Guard troops arrived in downtown Los Angeles on Sunday, following President Trump's order. The U.S. military's Northern Command confirmed to CBS News that 300 National Guard troops were in the Los Angeles area on Sunday, specifically in Paramount, Compton and the downtown area. Photos posted just after 8 am on Sunday morning by the U.S. Northern Command shows troops from the California National Guard's 79th Infantry Brigade Combat Team in Los Angeles.

#USNORTHCOM can confirm that elements of the 79th Infantry Brigade Combat Team from the California National Guard have begun deploying to the Los Angeles area, with some already on the ground. Additional information will be provided as units are identified and deployed. pic.twitter.com/BxqZM2YG1G — U.S. Northern Command (@USNorthernCmd) June 8, 2025

Around 3 p.m.

CBS News Los Angeles reporters on the ground said demonstrations remained peaceful through Sunday morning and early afternoon. That changed around 3 p.m., when a large crowd marched from the steps of City Hall to the nearby federal building, where the Metropolitan Detention Center is located. Protesters confronted a line of federal agents stationed outside.

Protesters marching down a street in downtown Los Angeles on June 8, 2025. @droman3634 via Storyful

The Los Angeles Police Department issued a citywide Tactical Alert. By 3:30 p.m., the LAPD's Central Division posted on X that a dispersal order was issued and arrests were being made.

Around 3:30 p.m.

Gov. Newsom officially asked the Trump administration to rescind the National Guard deployment order, posting on X, "This is a serious breach of state sovereignty — inflaming tensions while pulling resources from where they're actually needed."

Around 4 p.m.

Protesters entered the 101 Freeway in downtown Los Angeles, blocking lanes and the Aliso Street off-ramp as others watched from a nearby overpass.

Protesters block the 101 Freeway near the Metropolitan Detention Center in downtown Los Angeles on Sunday, June 8, 2025. Jae Hong / AP

The California Highway Patrol shut down the freeway and deployed dozens of officers, who cleared southbound lanes and pushed demonstrators back. Several people were detained, and officers deployed smoke canisters. The crowd was completely moved from the road by 5 p.m. and moved into the Civic Center.

Around 6 p.m.

An officer hit Australian journalist Lauren Tomasi with a rubber bullet outside the Metropolitan Detention Center. In a statement, 9News said Tomasi and her camera operator were safe and would continue their coverage.

Lauren Tomasi, a 9News correspondent from Australia, was reporting live on Sunday when an officer behind her fired a nonlethal round at close range 9News

Around 9 p.m.

LAPD declared the demonstration in downtown Los Angeles an unlawful assembly and ordered protesters to leave. Protesters continued moving through downtown, setting off fireworks and throwing objects at passing police vehicles. They lit fires in dumpsters and trash bins and looted at least one store. Protesters also tagged dozens of buildings with graffiti, including LAPD headquarters, the U.S. Courthouse and the former Los Angeles Times building.

Graffiti behind Los Angeles police officers deployed next to City Hall as clashes continue into the night during a protest following federal immigration operations in Los Angeles on June 8, 2025. ETIENNE LAURENT/AFP via Getty Images

Saturday, June 7

Saturday morning

Footage posted to social media at around 9:45 a.m. showed federal law enforcement officers outside a Home Depot in Paramount, a city south of Los Angeles, fueling rumors of an imminent raid. Tricia McLaughlin, a spokesperson for the Department of Homeland Security, said in a statement that there was no ICE "raid" on Saturday in Paramount, but instead the agents were staging at an office.

Still image taken from a video posted to social media on Saturday morning shows federal law enforcement officers in Paramount, California. @idistae via Storyful

Around 11 a.m.

The Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department said it responded to a call about a large crowd blocking traffic in the area.

Saturday afternoon

Tensions escalated on Saturday afternoon. At around 4 p.m., the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department declared the demonstration in Paramount an unlawful assembly, warning protesters to leave. The protests spread to the nearby city of Compton.

Protesters confront Border Patrol personnel during a demonstration over the dozens detained in an operation by federal immigration authorities a day earlier, in Paramount, Calif., Saturday, June 7, 2025. Eric Thayer / AP

5:13 p.m.

Gov. Gavin Newsom posted to X saying the "federal government is moving to take over the California National Guard and deploy 2,000 soldiers. That move is purposefully inflammatory and will only escalate tensions."

Around 6 p.m.

President Trump signed a memo ordering the deployment of at least 2,000 National Guard troops to Los Angeles County. The majority of the soldiers would come from the California National Guard, a Defense Department official told CBS News.

7:06 p.m.

Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth posted on X that the National Guard was being mobilized immediately, and that if the violence continued, he would also mobilize active duty Marines from Camp Pendleton in San Diego County. He said the Marines were on "high alert."

Saturday night

The protests continued into Saturday night. The Los Angeles Police Department later posted on X that they had declared a protest at Alameda and Temple Streets an unlawful assembly, warning demonstrators they could be arrested if they remained in the area.

A protester waves an American and Mexican flag during a protest in Compton, Calif., Saturday, June 7, 2025, after federal immigration authorities conducted operations. Ethan Swope / AP

Friday, June 6

Friday afternoon

Immigration raids in Los Angeles on Friday sparked protests at several locations where federal agents were making arrests. In the Fashion District near downtown Los Angeles, video showed a crowd gathering outside a clothing warehouse targeted in the raids, and protesters clashing with law enforcement as they attempted to block a white law enforcement van.

3:23 p.m.

Mayor Karen Bass posted on X after 3 p.m. condemning federal immigration enforcement actions in Los Angeles, saying, "we will not stand for this."

Around 6 p.m.

Later, in downtown Los Angeles, demonstrators clashed with Department of Homeland Security officers at the Edward R. Roybal Federal Building and United States Courthouse. This was where officials allegedly took some migrants who were detained during the raids. Video from the scene shows protesters vandalizing the outside of the building and clashing with federal law enforcement at around 6:30 p.m.

Protesters outside the Edward R. Roybal Federal Building and the Metropolitan Detention Center in response to ICE raids in Los Angeles on Friday, June 6, 2025. Jason Armond / Los Angeles Times via Getty Images

Around 6:30 p.m.

The Los Angeles Police Department said it responded to a request for assistance from federal authorities at around 6:30 p.m. and arrived at the scene within 55 minutes. The department said its response time was impacted by "significant traffic congestion, the presence of demonstrators, and, notably, by the fact that federal agents had deployed irritants into the crowd prior to LAPD's arrival."

Later, the Department of Homeland Security claimed the LAPD took two hours to respond. A federal law enforcement official told CBS News that ICE requested assistance from LAPD multiple times over the course of Friday night and that it took more than two hours to honor that request. However, a senior city official in L.A. disputed that timeline, telling CBS News that it took LAPD 55 minutes to respond, not two hours.

The LAPD posted on X at 7 p.m. that it had declared an "unlawful assembly," ordering protesters to leave the area and giving them five minutes to comply. By 8 p.m., video shows LAPD officers had blocked the crowd's path to the detention center. Police said some protesters had thrown large pieces of concrete. CBS News Los Angeles reporters witnessed officers firing non-lethal foam projectiles and bean bag rounds in response.