Title: NYPD detains several protesters at anti-ICE demonstration in Lower Manhattan, police sources say
Authors: Adi

Police took more than a dozen people into custody Saturday in Lower Manhattan after what police sources called an unscheduled anti-Immigration and Customs Enforcement demonstration.

Those sources told CBS News New York protesters gathered at a parking garage near Centre and Howard streets around noon.

Protesters clash with NYPD outside Lower Manhattan parking garage

Protesters told CBS News New York they arrived with a mission in mind — to prevent an ICE operation.

"We came down to lend our voices and our support against ICE," protester Michael Zorek said.

In a post on X, New York State Attorney General Letitia James wrote, in part, "Today there was a planned federal operation in lower Manhattan."

At one point, more than 100 protesters united to create a human barrier outside the parking garage.

"We're here to stand up for our communities, and we're here to stand up for our neighbors," protester Amanda Holden said. "We do not agree with ripping families apart, with ICE ripping families apart. We'll do anything we can to stop it, and that includes putting our bodies on the line."

Protesters allegedly tried to stop ICE agents from leaving a Lower Manhattan parking garage to conduct a vendor raid on nearby Canal Street on Nov. 29, 2025. CBS News New York

Protesters clashed with NYPD officers and what appeared to be Department of Homeland Security officers. Groups of people could be seen throwing debris at police and standing in front of their vehicles.

"There were protesters that had been pepper-sprayed, sprayed with something else that looked kind of like it was orange, and then there were protesters that had bloody faces," Holden said.

Video shows white vans did eventually leave the garage.

"Hopefully we were able to stop them from doing stuff down here," Zorek said.

It is unclear if any raids were conducted. CBS News New York reached out to DHS twice on Saturday but did not immediately hear back.

Video shows police officers detaining multiple people and placing them in NYPD vans. Days later, police confirmed a total of 18 protesters were taken into custody and charged.

Local officials react to anti-ICE demonstration in NYC

In her post on X, the state attorney general wrote that her office was "closely monitoring the situation," adding, "We will keep working with our partners in government to ensure that New Yorkers know their rights, including those arrested today."

New York City Comptroller Brad Lander wrote on X, in part, "I'm disturbed by footage showing NYPD officers clearing the way for ICE vehicles."

Several people were taken into custody in Lower Manhattan on Nov. 29, 2025, after what police sources call an unscheduled anti-ICE demonstration. CBS News New York

A spokesperson for Mayor-elect Zohran Mamdani's transition team released the following statement:

"The Mayor-elect has made it clear — including to the President — that these raids are cruel and inhumane, and fail to advance genuine public safety. New York City's more than three million immigrants are central to our city's strength, vitality, and success, and the Mayor-elect remains steadfast in his commitment to protecting the rights and dignity of every single New Yorker, upholding our sanctuary laws, and deescalation rather than use of unnecessary force."

Last week, White House border czar Tom Homan announced he planned to step up ICE enforcement in New York City.

In October, ICE conducted a raid on Canal Street and took nine people into custody. DHS said those detained were immigrants from Africa suspected of being in the country illegally. On Nov. 22, ICE said it carried out a targeted operation near Canal and Lafayette streets to arrest one man.