Title: Body camera footage shows what happened inside Cato ICE raid
Authors: Published Pm Et Nov.
Published: 2025-11-20 00:00:00

Body camera footage from a September immigration raid in Cayuga County shows federal agents sorting nutrition bar factory employees based on their status, forcefully entering women’s restroom and searching for people rather than records.

WATCH: See the full body cam footage below

On Sept. 4, federal agents detained 57 employees of the Nutrition Bar Confectioners factory in Cato. The footage was unsealed this week as an exhibit of a motion to suppress evidence filed by attorney Paul Tuck on behalf of Argentina Juarez-Lopez, who was detained in the immigration raid and charged with a felony of illegal re-entry into the United States after deportation.

Juarez-Lopez was one of five people charged with illegal re-entry following the raid.

Agents gained entry to the facility after a manager unlocked the front door from the outside. An agent asked the manager if the owner had been notified, and he replied, saying Lenny Schmidt, one of the owners, was on his way.

“Attention all Nutrition Bar Confectioners employees, the police are here with a search warrant. Please move to the production hallway and turn off all equipment by hitting the e-safe button,” the manager said over an intercom, as could be heard on the video as agents entered.

Court records show that federal authorities had two separate types of warrants, one for business records and the other was a Blackie’s warrant, named after a 1981 court case, Blackie’s House of Beef vs. Castillo. In the footage, the agents enter an office and state they are going to look through the computers. However, the majority of the footage is agents searching the facility for people.

The Blackie’s warrant allows agents to enter a work site and look for people suspected of violating immigration law but does not name specific people. The footage shows them sorting people based in groups of visas and permit holders, U.S. citizens and people they need more information from. The warrant specifically only allows for “consensual conversation.”

At 9:26 a.m., shortly after agents entered the factory, agents were seen knocking on the door to the women's restroom and trying to push the door open. An agent states in Spanish to open the door now.

“Oh, that’s a foot, that’s resistance,” an agent said.

They kick the door open and enter the restroom, telling the women to get down and get on the ground. Another agent calls for female officers, and another one pushes the stall door open.

“Miss, pull up your pants and come out of the bathroom. Pull up your pants, come out of the bathroom,” the agent said to the woman in the stall.

At least one person detained in the raid, Hediberto Ramirez Perez, was deported despite his valid work permit. Others remain in limbo and are still being held in detention centers.