Title: S.F. judge extends restraining order against ICE for immigrant activist
Authors: Frankie Solinsky Duryea, More Frankie Solinsky Duryea
Published: 2025-07-16 00:03:23+00:00

A San Francisco federal judge extended a restraining order against ICE on Tuesday morning, preventing federal agents from interfering in 31-year-old Guillermo Medina Reyes’ immigration case.

That judge, U.S. District Court Judge Rita Lin, will decide on Thursday whether to allow a longer extension.

Reyes’ case has become a rallying point for immigrant activists across the Bay Area. Almost 100 people gathered early Tuesday morning outside the downtown San Francisco federal courthouse at 450 Golden Gate Ave. before his hearing, raising banners reading, “Protect our neighbors” and chanting slogans like, “From Palestine to Mexico, the border walls have got to go.”

“Guillermo brought us all together,” said Esperanza Cuatle from Pangea Legal Services. “We all share the same values. Our liberation is collective, or it won’t be liberation at all.”

Protesters gather outside the San Francisco federal courthouse on July 15, 2025, after a district court judge rules for Guillermo Medina Reyes’ restraining order to be extended. Photo by Frankie Solinsky Duryea.

Reyes came to the United States when he was 6. After being convicted of an attempted murder charge at 16, he spent 10 years in prison. When he was released on parole in 2021, he was transferred to ICE custody.

He lived in the Golden State Annex detention center in Bakersfield until 2023, when an immigration judge released him on bond after determining that he wasn’t a danger or flight risk.

Since then, he has organized for better conditions in California detention centers, and worked as a tattoo artist in San Jose, according to friends.

After being arrested on a new vandalism charge in May, which Reyes’ lawyers argue was a result of a mental health episode, ICE alerted his lawyers that they intended to detain him.

His attorney filed a habeas petition and, the night before Reyes’ immigration appointment on July 1, a judge granted him a temporary restraining order to keep ICE agents away.

More than 100 people rallied at his appointment that day to ensure agents complied with the ruling.

He wasn’t detained, and has stayed at home with an ankle monitor since.

At the Golden State Annex, Reyes co-organized labor and hunger strikes to improve conditions, and sued the private prison company GEO Group for retaliating against advocates.

“You could be placed in solitary confinement for speaking up,” recalled a friend of Reyes, another former inmate at Golden State Annex who attended the hearing and asked to remain anonymous.

That way, he said, “the facility could put fear into the rest of the detainee population.”

The friend said that he and Reyes have become closer since being released; both still advocate for improvements to detention centers. He called Reyes a “respectful, real caring person” who’s willing to put his neck on the line, despite the retaliation he’d already faced.

“He chose to continue to be vocal and active, which meant more risk to him,” said Deborah Lee, co-director of the Interfaith Movement for Human Integrity, at the rally. She met Reyes through advocacy work, and has worked with him since his release to raise awareness of the conditions that immigrants face at ICE detention centers.

“If we can prevent ICE from detaining Guillermo, that sets an important precedent in our ability to keep anybody out of ICE detention,” Alex Mensing of the California Collaborative for Immigrant Justice said.

Protesters gather outside the S.F. federal courthouse before Guillermo Medina Reyes’ hearing on July 15, 2025. Photo by Frankie Solinsky Duryea.

Pamela T. Johann, the attorney representing ICE, argued at the hearing that Reyes was being targeted for his criminal record, fulfilling a campaign promise of President Donald Trump. Victoria Sun, Reyes’ lead counsel, declined to offer any specifics on the vandalism charges.

On Thursday, the judge will decide whether to dismiss the restraining order, a move that would allow ICE to put Reyes in detention, or she will begin the proceedings for Reyes to get a bond hearing, before an immigration judge.

If Reyes is offered a bond hearing, it will likely be at the immigration courthouse at 100 Montgomery St., where about 30 immigrants have been detained over the last month and protests against ICE have turned violent.

If Reyes isn’t granted a bond hearing this Thursday, lawyers worry that he’ll be re-detained by ICE. If that’s the case, he will make a third pilgrimage down to one of California’s detention centers, this time with federal agents at his side.

Medina Reyes designed this light blue shirt for the participants of a caravan down to California’s detention centers. On July 15, 2025, a friend wore the shirt outside Medina Reyes’ hearing. Photo by Frankie Solinsky Duryea.