Title: Ukrainian national in ICE custody passes away at Miami-area hospital
Published: 2025-02-24 00:00:00

MIAMI — Maksym Chernyak, a 44-year-old citizen of Ukraine in the custody of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, was pronounced deceased by medical professionals at HCA Kendall Hospital in Miami, Florida, Feb. 20 at 2:25 p.m. A hospital physician reported the preliminary cause of death as bleeding from the brain.

Chernyak had been hospitalized since being taken to the hospital by Miami Dade Fire Rescue due to vomiting and seizure activity Feb.18.

Chernyak entered the United States on Aug. 24, 2024, in Miami as a Ukrainian Humanitarian Parolee with authorization to stay in the U.S. through Aug. 23, 2026. ICE encountered Chernyak Jan. 26 at the Broward County Jail in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, following an arrest for battery with bodily harm, and lodged an immigration detainer. Broward County Jail released Chernyak into the custody of ICE Feb. 2, and he was transported to the Krome Service and Processing Center.

Miami Dade Fire Rescue transported Chernyak to the HCA Kendall Hospital due to vomiting and seizure activity. Hospital medical staff established a stroke alert due to unresponsive state after Chernyak was admitted Feb. 18. Medical staff conducted a CT scan of the brain which revealed bleeding. Medical staff intubated Chernyak and initiated several intravenous medications to stabilize him. Medical staff began brain death protocol Feb. 19 due to the massive intra cranial hemorrhage.

Consistent with ICE protocols, the appropriate components were notified about the death, including the Department of Homeland Security Office of Inspector General and the ICE Office of Professional Responsibility. ICE notified Chernyak’s attorney as he does not have a listed next of kin.

Upon an official report of a detained illegal alien death, ICE makes official notifications to Congress, nongovernmental organization stakeholders, and the media and posts a news release with relevant details on the public website within two business days, per agency policy. This information may be accessed in the ICE.gov Newsroom. Additionally, congressional requirements described in the 2018 DHS appropriations bill require ICE to make public all reports regarding an in-custody death within 90 days. These reports may be accessed on the Detainee Death Reporting page.

ICE remains committed to ensuring that all those in its custody reside in safe, secure and humane environments. Comprehensive medical care is provided from the moment individuals arrive and throughout the entirety of their stay. All people in ICE custody receive medical, dental and mental health intake screening within 12 hours of arriving at each detention facility, a full health assessment within 14 days of entering ICE custody or arrival at a facility, and access to medical appointments and 24-hour emergency care. At no time during detention is a detained illegal alien denied emergent care.