2 officers hurt, 60 arrested as ICE protests in SF turn violent – NBC Bay Area
Skip to content
San Francisco
2 officers hurt, 60 arrested as ICE protests in SF turn violent
By
Bay City News
•
Published June 9, 2025
•
Updated on
June 9, 2025
at
6:46 am
BOOKMARKER
NBC Universal, Inc.
San Francisco police arrested about 60 people, including juveniles, after a protest in the city’s Financial District escalated into violence on Sunday evening, resulting in injuries to two officers and significant property damage, authorities said.
San Francisco police arrested about 60 people, including juveniles, after a protest in the city's Financial District escalated into violence on Sunday evening, resulting in injuries to two officers and significant property damage, authorities said.
In a statement, the San Francisco Police Department said the violence began around 7 p.m. at the intersection of Sansome and Washington streets, where officers were monitoring a demonstration. Hundreds of protesters had gathered outside the Immigration and Customs Enforcement field office at Sansome Street, carrying signs and chanting slogans against ongoing federal immigration enforcement and the recent deployment of National Guard troops to Los Angeles.
Watch NBC Bay Area News free wherever you are
WATCH HERE
According to police, some individuals in the crowd became violent, allegedly committing crimes that included assault and felony vandalism.
Police noted that a small group continued to the 200 block of Montgomery Street. SFPD said they issued dispersal orders to those protesters and arrested around 60 people -- including juveniles-- who refused to comply. Police also said they recovered one firearm at the scene.
As the gathering was declared an unlawful assembly, many demonstrators dispersed. However, police said that others continued to engage in what was described as illegal activity. Two officers suffered non-life-threatening injuries, and one of them had to be transported to a hospital for treatment.
As the unrest spread to Market and Kearny streets, protesters allegedly vandalized buildings and a police patrol vehicle. Police said some participants split from the main group and continued damaging property in surrounding areas.
A smaller group then moved to the 200 block of Montgomery Street, where officers issued dispersal orders. After repeated warnings were ignored, police carried out arrests.
Local
Berkeley
12 minutes ago
Crews contain large warehouse fire in Berkeley
NASA
13 hours ago
NASA's new leader visits Ames Research Center, stresses busy future
A firearm was recovered at the scene. No other injuries were reported.
The identities of those arrested have not yet been released.
SFPD statement on unlawful assembly tonight:
pic.twitter.com/qhJ4Nk9XF1
— San Francisco Police (@SFPD)
June 9, 2025
According to BART, its Embarcadero station had to suspend train operations due to "civil disturbance".
San Francisco Mayor Daniel Lurie noted that a lot of Muni vehicles were vandalized, and windows of local businesses were broken in the district.
"Everyone in this country has a right to make their voice heard peacefully, and local law enforcement will always protect that right and the rights of everyone in our city to be safe. But we will never tolerate violent and destructive behavior…" Lurie said on social media.
"Violence directed at law enforcement or public servants is never acceptable," he emphasized.
In a social media post, California Gov. Gavin Newsom has urged Californians to "not use violence" and "stay peaceful" in their demonstrations.
"Don't give (President) Donald Trump what he wants," he said. "Speak up. Stay peaceful. Stay calm."
"Do not use violence and respect the law enforcement officers that are trying their best to keep the peace," he added.
Tensions between Newsom and Trump escalated over the weekend following the president's decision to deploy National Guard troops to Los Angeles in response to recent unrest over ICE operations.
In a letter to the Department of Defense, Newsom called the deployment a serious breach of state sovereignty and vowed legal action. Trump, in a social media post, defended the deployment as necessary to restore law and order and accused the Governor of incompetence.
Copyright Bay City News
This article tagged under:
San Francisco
Immigration
Close Menu
Create profile / Log in
Dashboard
Search for:
Local
Climate in Crisis
Making It In The Bay
Weather
Weather Alerts
State
U.S. & World
Sports
Bay Area Sports Calendar
WE INVESTIGATE
Submit a tip
Digital Series
NBC Bay Area Responds
Submit a consumer complaint
How To Explainers
Sand Hill Road
Newsletters
California Live
Entertainment
Video
About Us
Our News Standards
TV Schedule
Submit Photos and Video
Contests
Newsletters
TV Schedule
Our Apps
Cozi TV
NBC Sports Bay Area
Follow Us
Facebook
Instagram
TikTok
Youtube
Contact Us