2 officers hurt, 60 arrested as ICE protests in SF turn violent &#8211; NBC Bay Area Skip to content Main Navigation Search Search for: Local Weather Super Bowl Olympics WE INVESTIGATE Video Newsletters Watch 24/7 Create profile / Log in Dashboard Email preferences Sign out Trending Super Bowl Week Events Super Bowl safety plan Sunnyvale crash, gas leak Odor investigation Californians on Team USA Super Bowl LX Expand San Francisco 2 officers hurt, 60 arrested as ICE protests in SF turn violent By Bay City News &bull; Published June 9, 2025 &bull; Updated on June 9, 2025 at 6:46 am BOOKMARKER NBC Universal, Inc. San Francisco police arrested about 60 people, including juveniles, after a protest in the city&#8217;s Financial District escalated into violence on Sunday evening, resulting in injuries to two officers and significant property damage, authorities said. San Francisco police arrested about 60 people, including juveniles, after a protest in the city's Financial District escalated into violence on Sunday evening, resulting in injuries to two officers and significant property damage, authorities said. In a statement, the San Francisco Police Department said the violence began around 7 p.m. at the intersection of Sansome and Washington streets, where officers were monitoring a demonstration. Hundreds of protesters had gathered outside the Immigration and Customs Enforcement field office at Sansome Street, carrying signs and chanting slogans against ongoing federal immigration enforcement and the recent deployment of National Guard troops to Los Angeles. Watch NBC Bay Area News free wherever you are &nbsp; WATCH HERE According to police, some individuals in the crowd became violent, allegedly committing crimes that included assault and felony vandalism. Police noted that a small group continued to the 200 block of Montgomery Street. SFPD said they issued dispersal orders to those protesters and arrested around 60 people -- including juveniles-- who refused to comply. Police also said they recovered one firearm at the scene. As the gathering was declared an unlawful assembly, many demonstrators dispersed. However, police said that others continued to engage in what was described as illegal activity. Two officers suffered non-life-threatening injuries, and one of them had to be transported to a hospital for treatment. As the unrest spread to Market and Kearny streets, protesters allegedly vandalized buildings and a police patrol vehicle. Police said some participants split from the main group and continued damaging property in surrounding areas. A smaller group then moved to the 200 block of Montgomery Street, where officers issued dispersal orders. After repeated warnings were ignored, police carried out arrests. Local Berkeley 12 minutes ago Crews contain large warehouse fire in Berkeley NASA 13 hours ago NASA&#039;s new leader visits Ames Research Center, stresses busy future A firearm was recovered at the scene. No other injuries were reported. The identities of those arrested have not yet been released. SFPD statement on unlawful assembly tonight: pic.twitter.com/qhJ4Nk9XF1 &mdash; San Francisco Police (@SFPD) June 9, 2025 According to BART, its Embarcadero station had to suspend train operations due to "civil disturbance". San Francisco Mayor Daniel Lurie noted that a lot of Muni vehicles were vandalized, and windows of local businesses were broken in the district. "Everyone in this country has a right to make their voice heard peacefully, and local law enforcement will always protect that right and the rights of everyone in our city to be safe. But we will never tolerate violent and destructive behavior…" Lurie said on social media. "Violence directed at law enforcement or public servants is never acceptable," he emphasized. In a social media post, California Gov. Gavin Newsom has urged Californians to "not use violence" and "stay peaceful" in their demonstrations. "Don't give (President) Donald Trump what he wants," he said. "Speak up. Stay peaceful. Stay calm." "Do not use violence and respect the law enforcement officers that are trying their best to keep the peace," he added. Tensions between Newsom and Trump escalated over the weekend following the president's decision to deploy National Guard troops to Los Angeles in response to recent unrest over ICE operations. In a letter to the Department of Defense, Newsom called the deployment a serious breach of state sovereignty and vowed legal action. Trump, in a social media post, defended the deployment as necessary to restore law and order and accused the Governor of incompetence. Copyright Bay City News This article tagged under: San Francisco Immigration on now 7AM: Today In The Bay Trending Stories Antioch Police say hit-and-run killed girl found on the side of the road in Antioch San Jose Man dies after hit-and-run crash in San Jose San Jose Arrest made in 2012 San Jose cold case homicide Super Bowl San Francisco leaders detail Super Bowl week safety plan bay area weather Bay Area forecast: Midweek showers, dangerous waves ahead Weather Forecast Facebook Instagram TikTok Youtube Submit Tips for Investigations Newsletters About Us Connect With Us Our News Standards NBC Sports Bay Area Xfinity: Internet, TV, streaming, more KNTV Public Inspection File KNTV Accessibility KNTV Employment Information Send Feedback FCC Applications Terms of Service NEW Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Advertise with us CA Notice Ad Choices Copyright © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC. All rights reserved Close Menu Create profile / Log in Dashboard Search for: Local Climate in Crisis Making It In The Bay Weather Weather Alerts State U.S. &amp; World Sports Bay Area Sports Calendar WE INVESTIGATE Submit a tip Digital Series NBC Bay Area Responds Submit a consumer complaint How To Explainers Sand Hill Road Newsletters California Live Entertainment Video About Us Our News Standards TV Schedule Submit Photos and Video Contests Newsletters TV Schedule Our Apps Cozi TV NBC Sports Bay Area Follow Us Facebook Instagram TikTok Youtube Contact Us