Title: Cuban national dies in ICE custody
Published: 2025-06-29 00:00:00

MIAMI — Isidro Perez, a 75-year-old citizen of Cuba in the custody of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, was pronounced deceased by the HCA Kendall Florida Hospital June 26 at 8:42 p.m. The cause of death is still under investigation.

Perez was being detained at the Krome Service Processing Center Medical Housing Unit and notified ICE Health Services Corps personnel he was having chest pains at approximately 7 p.m. Miami Dade Rescue arrived at KSPC and initiated life-sustaining interventions to include Automated External Defibrillator shock and cardiopulmonary resuscitation and he responded to revival methods. He was transported to Kendall Florida Hospital for further evaluation and treatment, but was pronounced deceased at 8:42 p.m. by medical staff.

ICE arrested Perez June 5, 2025, during a law enforcement action in Key Largo, when he was charged with inadmissibility pursuant to the Immigration and Nationality Act.

He was transferred to KSPC June 6, and upon intake was diagnosed with several medical issues. He was admitted to the Larkin Community Hospital June 17 due to an unstable angina/esquimes changes on the EKG; he was discharged from LCH June 25.

Perez was paroled into the United States in Houston April 1, 1966. On Feb. 10, 1981 and Jan. 25, 1984 he was convicted of possession of a controlled substance in the United States Court for the Southern District of Florida.

Consistent with ICE policy, ICE Enforcement and Removal Operations notified the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the Office of Inspector General, and the ICE Office of Professional Responsibility via the Integrity Coordination Center. ERO provided telephone notification of the death to the Consulate of Cuba.

ICE makes official notifications to Congress, nongovernmental organization stakeholders and the media upon an official report of a detained illegal alien’s death and posts a news release with relevant details on the ICE public website within two business days per agency policy. This information may be accessed in the ICE.gov Newsroom. Additionally, congressional requirements described in the DHS Appropriations Bill of 2018 require ICE to make public all reports regarding an in-custody death within 90 days.

These reports may be accessed on the Detainee Death Reporting page.

ICE remains committed to ensuring that all those in its custody reside in safe, secure, and humane environments. Comprehensive medical care is provided from the moment individuals arrive and throughout the entirety of their stay. All people in ICE custody receive medical, dental and mental health intake screening within 12 hours of arriving at each detention facility, a full health assessment within 14 days of entering ICE custody or arrival at a facility, access to medical appointments and 24-hour emergency care. At no time during detention is a detained illegal alien denied emergent care.