Cuban man, 75, dies under ICE custody at Miami-Dade&#x27;s Krome Detention Center | WLRN Search Query Show Search HOME News Latest Headlines News In Brief Government &amp; Politics Education Americas Environment Law &amp; Justice Business &amp; Economy Investigations Arts &amp; Culture PolitiFact Florida Health Weather Special Series Archive Latest Headlines News In Brief Government &amp; Politics Education Americas Environment Law &amp; Justice Business &amp; Economy Investigations Arts &amp; Culture PolitiFact Florida Health Weather Special Series Archive Radio &amp; Podcasts Radio Radio Schedule How to listen to WLRN Classical Podcasts Keeper and Killer Americas Decoded Killer Train The Florida Roundup The South Florida Roundup Bright Lit Place Detention By Design Tallahassee Takeover Folk &amp; Acoustic Music The Public Storyteller Radio Radio Schedule How to listen to WLRN Classical Podcasts Keeper and Killer Americas Decoded Killer Train The Florida Roundup The South Florida Roundup Bright Lit Place Detention By Design Tallahassee Takeover Folk &amp; Acoustic Music The Public Storyteller Newsletters TV Television TV Schedule WLRN Passport WLRN Documentaries Watch WLRN Producing For WLRN Ways To Watch WLRN Television TV Schedule WLRN Passport WLRN Documentaries Watch WLRN Producing For WLRN Ways To Watch WLRN Support Members Membership Vehicle Donation WLRN Passport Create Your Will Tax Savvy Giving More ways to give Member Portal Login Sponsorship Corporate Sponsorship Corporate Circle Members Membership Vehicle Donation WLRN Passport Create Your Will Tax Savvy Giving More ways to give Member Portal Login Sponsorship Corporate Sponsorship Corporate Circle About WLRN Mission and Vision WLRN Management Miami-Dade County Public School Board WLRN Staff WLRN Jobs Privacy Policy Comment Policy Source Tracking Policy WLRN Public Files and Records Commitment to Equal Employment Opportunities Local Content and Service Report Annual Programming Report WLRN&#x27;s Community Advisory Board WLRN Captioning Certificate WLRN Mission and Vision WLRN Management Miami-Dade County Public School Board WLRN Staff WLRN Jobs Privacy Policy Comment Policy Source Tracking Policy WLRN Public Files and Records Commitment to Equal Employment Opportunities Local Content and Service Report Annual Programming Report WLRN&#x27;s Community Advisory Board WLRN Captioning Certificate MORE Events Calendar Shop WLRN Station Tours Producing For WLRN Mobile Listening Troubleshooting Events Calendar Shop WLRN Station Tours Producing For WLRN Mobile Listening Troubleshooting © 2026 WLRN Menu Show Search Search Query DONATE Play Live Radio Next Up: 0:00 0:00 0:00 0:00 Available On Air Stations On Air Now Playing WLRN NPR News On Air Now Playing WLRN Classical All Streams HOME News Latest Headlines News In Brief Government &amp; Politics Education Americas Environment Law &amp; Justice Business &amp; Economy Investigations Arts &amp; Culture PolitiFact Florida Health Weather Special Series Archive Latest Headlines News In Brief Government &amp; Politics Education Americas Environment Law &amp; Justice Business &amp; Economy Investigations Arts &amp; Culture PolitiFact Florida Health Weather Special Series Archive Radio &amp; Podcasts Radio Radio Schedule How to listen to WLRN Classical Podcasts Keeper and Killer Americas Decoded Killer Train The Florida Roundup The South Florida Roundup Bright Lit Place Detention By Design Tallahassee Takeover Folk &amp; Acoustic Music The Public Storyteller Radio Radio Schedule How to listen to WLRN Classical Podcasts Keeper and Killer Americas Decoded Killer Train The Florida Roundup The South Florida Roundup Bright Lit Place Detention By Design Tallahassee Takeover Folk &amp; Acoustic Music The Public Storyteller Newsletters TV Television TV Schedule WLRN Passport WLRN Documentaries Watch WLRN Producing For WLRN Ways To Watch WLRN Television TV Schedule WLRN Passport WLRN Documentaries Watch WLRN Producing For WLRN Ways To Watch WLRN Support Members Membership Vehicle Donation WLRN Passport Create Your Will Tax Savvy Giving More ways to give Member Portal Login Sponsorship Corporate Sponsorship Corporate Circle Members Membership Vehicle Donation WLRN Passport Create Your Will Tax Savvy Giving More ways to give Member Portal Login Sponsorship Corporate Sponsorship Corporate Circle About WLRN Mission and Vision WLRN Management Miami-Dade County Public School Board WLRN Staff WLRN Jobs Privacy Policy Comment Policy Source Tracking Policy WLRN Public Files and Records Commitment to Equal Employment Opportunities Local Content and Service Report Annual Programming Report WLRN&#x27;s Community Advisory Board WLRN Captioning Certificate WLRN Mission and Vision WLRN Management Miami-Dade County Public School Board WLRN Staff WLRN Jobs Privacy Policy Comment Policy Source Tracking Policy WLRN Public Files and Records Commitment to Equal Employment Opportunities Local Content and Service Report Annual Programming Report WLRN&#x27;s Community Advisory Board WLRN Captioning Certificate MORE Events Calendar Shop WLRN Station Tours Producing For WLRN Mobile Listening Troubleshooting Events Calendar Shop WLRN Station Tours Producing For WLRN Mobile Listening Troubleshooting Immigration Cuban man, 75, dies under ICE custody at Miami-Dade&#x27;s Krome Detention Center WLRN Public Media | By Alyssa Ramos Published&nbsp;June 30, 2025 at 3:02 PM EDT Threads Facebook Twitter Pinterest Bluesky LinkedIn Email Marta Lavandier / AP FILE: The Krome Detention Center, Wednesday, April 16, 2025, in Miami. A 75-year-old man from Cuba died in the custody of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), making him the fifth detainee to die in Florida this year. Health officials at the HCA Kendall Florida Hospital pronounced Isidro Perez dead last Thursday night. ICE said the cause of death remains under investigation. Perez notified the Krome Detention Center's health service that he was having chest pains at around 7 p.m. Thursday, according to ICE officials. Perez had responded to treatment including CPR and an AED shock before he was transported to the hospital for further treatment, according to ICE, who reported he later died. READ MORE: What we know about 'Alligator Alcatraz' and Camp Blanding immigrant detention center plans Perez was paroled into the United States in Houston, Texas, in 1966, according to ICE. On June 5, ICE agents arrested him in Key Largo under the Immigration and Nationality Act, and he was charged with "inadmissibility." It's unclear why he was not allowed to remain in the U.S., but ICE reported Perez was convicted of possession of a controlled substance in federal court in 1981 and 1984. Krome has drawn the scrutiny of human rights groups and South Florida congressional members who have criticized the living conditions of hundreds of migrants being held at the large facility in south Miami-Dade. The Miami-based Americans for Immigrant Justice reported in April to the United Nations Human Rights Council with direct testimony from immigrants “who suffered appalling and shocking treatment at the Krome in violation of basic human rights.” Earlier this month, a large group of Cuban migrants held at Krome spelled out the letters “S-O-S” with their bodies on the grounds of the facility to protest conditions. The Cuban were angry that they were being held without being told of their release and fearing they may be removed to migrant detention facilities outside the U.S. The number of Cubans who are targeted for deportation has risen dramatically since Trump took office in January and pledged to end temporary immigration programs that had allowed hundreds of thousands of Cubans, Nicaraguans, Venezuelans and Haitians to live and work in the country. Late last month, the U.S. Supreme Court cleared the way for the Trump administration to strip temporary legal protections from hundreds of thousands of immigrants for now, pushing the total number of people who could be newly exposed to deportation to nearly 1 million. The justices lifted a lower-court order that kept humanitarian parole protections in place for more than 500,000 migrants from Cuba, Haiti, Nicaragua and Venezuela. That humanitarian parole program was launched by the former Biden administration but is being dismantled by the Trump administration. In an interview with WLRN, former Congressman Joe Garcia, of Miami, blamed the Trump administration's aggressive immigration enforcement policies for failing to protect migrants in federal custody. " [Perez] served his time, he paid his dues. We can't deport him to Cuba 'cause they're not gonna take him. So we lock him up at a cost of thousands of dollars a week and then kill him in essence, because of course, what kind of treatment are they gonna get in a jail?," Garcia told WLRN. Perez's death comes after of a Canadian citizen died Monday at the Bureau of Prisons Federal Detention Center in Miami. In a social media post , Garcia called on South Florida lawmakers to take action. "You lose democracy in degrees. It's not like one day to the next, democracy is lost. Every time a freedom is expunged, a process is ignored, a privilege, and a right is denied. That's how you lose democracy and freedom," Garcia said. The negligent culpability of our leaders, and those who collaborate will not wash away this blood. Where are our elected representatives? @MaElviraSalazar @RepCarlos @MarioDB #Cuba #Venezuela #Haiti #Nicaragua @FlaDems @dccc @MiamiDadeDems @DWStweets https://t.co/nXpTMPQ4G0 &mdash; Joe Garcia (@JoeGarcia) June 30, 2025 Tags Immigration News Local News Immigration and Customs Enforcement Krome Detention Center Threads Facebook Twitter Pinterest Bluesky LinkedIn Email Alyssa Ramos Alyssa Ramos is the multimedia producer for Morning Edition for WLRN. She produces regional stories for newscasts and manages digital content on WLRN. See stories by Alyssa Ramos Public funding is gone. But WLRN is still here—because of YOU. WLRN has lost over $3 million in federal and state support. Your donation today helps fill the gap and keeps trusted, local journalism alive. If you value the stories you read, please give now. Support WLRN Latest Stories Science &amp; Technology 40 years after Challenger: Lingering guilt and lessons learned Immigration Florida farms squeezed by worker fear and new E-Verify mandate Government &amp; Politics Senate President Albritton hospitalized overnight with blood clot Law &amp; Justice Florida appeals court sides with state in challenge over marijuana petitions More On This Topic New ad campaign in Miami lambastes Trump immigration policies following Minnesota shooting death South Florida lawmaker asks Trump to extend TPS for Haitians. Feb. 3 deportation deadline looms PolitiFact FL: Immigration after one year under Trump: Where do mass deportation efforts stand? The 5 biggest legal fights in the first year of Trump’s mass deportation push Stay Connected twitter instagram youtube pinterest bluesky threads facebook linkedin © 2026 WLRN About Contact Us Donate Underwrite Shop Newsletters FCC Public Files WLRN-TV FCC Public File WLRN-FM FCC Public File WKWM-FM FCC Public File WLRN Public Files and Records EEO Report Station Public Files Contact - James March (305) 995-2446 or JMarch@wlrn.org WLRN Management