Anti-ICE Protests Taking Place Nationwide: What to Know - Newsweek Nation News Politics Tech Fact Check Personal Finance Automotive Sports Better Workplaces World Russia-Ukraine Middle East China And Asia Better Planet All World News Lifestyle Family &amp; Parenting Entertainment Travel Pets Relationships Science Health Opinion My Turn All Opinion Rankings Health Finance Products Education Workplaces Corporate Responsibility All Rankings Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram YouTube TikTok Twitter/X Reddit Announcements Leadership Dev Pragad More Unconventional Events Podcasts Vantage Readers Choice Newsweek.AI Magazine Subscribe Sign In Nation News Politics Tech Fact Check Personal Finance Automotive Sports Better Workplaces World Russia-Ukraine Middle East China And Asia Better Planet All World News Lifestyle Family &amp; Parenting Entertainment Travel Pets Relationships Science Health Opinion My Turn All Opinion Rankings Health Finance Products Education Workplaces Corporate Responsibility All Rankings Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram YouTube TikTok Twitter/X Reddit Announcements Leadership Dev Pragad More Unconventional Events Podcasts Vantage Readers Choice Newsweek.AI Magazine Politics ICE Immigration Protests News Article Anti-ICE Protests Taking Place Nationwide: What to Know Published Apr 17, 2025 at 11:59 AM EDT ... By Billal Rahman Immigration Reporter Share Newsweek is a Trust Project member Immigrant rights advocates are rallying to protest against federal immigration authorities under the Trump administration. Why It Matters Immigration and Customs Enforcement ( ICE ) has been in the national spotlight as President Donald Trump looks to remove millions of immigrants who have no legal status from the country as part of his campaign pledge. The White House has said anyone in the country illegally is a "criminal." Across the aisle, immigration rights advocates are mobilizing to oppose the president's hardline agenda. ... What To Know Over 14 demonstrations are planned across 12 states, targeting Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) facilities and government offices. Protesters are voicing opposition to a proposed detention expansion plan that could triple the number of people in ICE custody. The "Communities Not Cages" National Day of Action, organized by Detention Watch Network is co-hosted by the American Friends Service Committee and Immigrant Justice Network. The demonstration calls for an end to immigration detention and deportation policies under the Trump administration's hardline agenda. The coordinated day of action includes rallies, vigils, banner drops, and large-scale light projections in cities such as Los Angeles, Phoenix, Denver, Atlanta, and New York City. Actions kicked off with an interfaith vigil in Dublin, California on April 16 and will continue through April 19 in Gadsden, Alabama. The "Communities Not Cages" campaign aims to shut down existing detention centers and halt further expansion. Organizers emphasize community-based alternatives to detention and demand that public funds be redirected toward immigrant support services rather than incarceration. Demonstrations include an interfaith vigil in Dublin, California, a rally outside the ICE Field Office in Los Angeles, and a protest at the Border Patrol Station in Las Cruces, New Mexico. Additional actions are planned in Phoenix, Arizona; Aurora, Colorado (outside the GEO Detention Center); and Fort Worth, Texas. Events are also scheduled in Oklahoma City and Tulsa, Grand Rapids, Michigan, New Orleans, Louisiana, Atlanta, Georgia, Elizabeth, New Jersey, and New York City. A final action will take place on April 19 in Gadsden, Alabama. What People Are Saying Laura Hernández, executive director of Freedom for Immigrants said in a statement shared with Newsweek: "Abducting activists in the streets, transferring people thousands of miles away from their loved ones, and concealing their whereabouts are all standard operating procedures at ICE." "Yet, in a few short months, this administration has cranked up these abuses of power to advance its ultimate goals of separating families, instilling fear, and terrorizing communities of color. The Trump administration is stopping at nothing to eliminate due process and rapidly expand the already massive detention system, deportation infrastructure, and law enforcement partnerships. "Taken together, these actions add up to an unprecedented assault on our human rights. But we will not back down. We are on the right side of history. We are the moral consciousness of our time. Today's demonstrations show the strength of our growing movement, powered by people of all walks of life coming together to demand investments in our communities, not more cages." The NJ Alliance for Immigrant Justice said in a post on X : "Let's show Union County Commissioners what #ImmigrantPower looks like by demanding that they reject private prison bids for the Union County Jail." What Happens Next Protests will take place in major cities in the country. Request Reprint &amp; Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial &amp; AI Guidelines Add Newsweek as a preferred source on Google to see more of our trusted coverage when you search. Related Podcasts Top Stories Politics Has Greg Bovino Been Fired? What We Know 2 min read Politics Kristi Noem Set to Testify Before Senate Amid Minneapolis Backlash: Report 6 min read News Map Shows Texas Under Extreme Cold Warning as -5 Wind Chill Possible 3 min read World Questions Swirl Over Xi’s ‘Coup’ Against Top General 6 min read For Members Analysis The Ice Is Cracking Under Kristi Noem 5 min read World Russia Spells Out ‘Path to Peace’ for Zelensky 3 min read Trending Social Security Seniors on Social Security Could Face $460 Monthly Cut to Benefits 4 min read Kristi Noem Kristi Noem Impeachment: 120 Lawmakers Sign On—Full List 8 min read Green Card Green Card Update: Applicants For 2027 Receive Boost 4 min read Alex Pretti Trump Admin Goes Against Kristi Noem’s Remarks About Alex Pretti 6 min read Alex Pretti Major US Companies Speak Out Against Alex Pretti Shooting: Full List 9 min read Opinion Opinion Principled Pragmatism—How the West Should Act in a World With No Rules | Opinion 5 min read Opinion Why Every Parent Should Worry About Human Trafficking | Opinion 4 min read Opinion Is Government Accountability in Free Fall? | Opinion 5 min read Opinion Four AI Risk Trends To Watch For in 2026 | Opinion 6 min read Opinion Who’s Afraid of the Ten Commandments? 6 min read sections Nation World Lifestyle Health Opinion Rankings company About Us Masthead Careers Diversity &amp; Inclusion Mission Statement Leadership editions U.S. Edition 日本 Polska România contact Advertise Corrections Announcements Press Center Contact Us terms of use Cookie Policy Copyright Privacy Policy Terms &amp; Conditions Terms of Sale Privacy Settings sections Nation World Lifestyle Health Opinion Rankings company About Us Masthead Careers Diversity &amp; Inclusion Mission Statement Leadership editions U.S. Edition 日本 Polska România contact Advertise Corrections Announcements Press Center Contact Us terms of use Cookie Policy Copyright Privacy Policy Terms &amp; Conditions Terms of Sale Privacy Settings © 2026 Newsweek Digital LLC