Latest US deportations to Russia spark fears over draft notices and FSB intimidation | Euronews Go to navigation Go to main content Go to search Go to footer English English Français Deutsch Italiano Español Português Polski Pусский Türkçe Ελληνικά Magyar فارسی العربية Shqip Română ქართული български Srpski BHS Newsletter Newsletters Events Events Podcasts Videos Africanews Loader Latest Trending Iran Davos Greenland War in Ukraine European Union Donald Trump Latest stories Europe News EU Commission to probe Hungary&#039;s defence loan request Europe Today Virkkunen warns X of ‘clear obligations’ amid investigation into Grok No Comment Hundreds of people evacuated in Sicily&#039;s Niscemi after landslide Green News Europe’s most climate-friendly supermarket revealed - see full list Europe Categories EU.XL Europe News Europe Series France United Kingdom Programmes Europe in Motion The Cube The Europe Conversation 12 minutes with Made in Europe Brussels, My Love? Euronews investigates Make it Work Smart Regions Featured Europe Today Euronews&#039; flagship morning TV show with the news and insights that drive Europe, live from Brussels every morning at 08.00. Also available as a newsletter and podcast. The Ring The Ring is Euronews’ weekly political showdown, where Europe’s toughest debates meet their boldest voices. In each episode, two political heavyweights from across the EU face off to propose a diversity of opinions and spark conversations around the most important issues of EU affairs and the wider European political life. World Categories World Davos Iran Greenland USA Programmes Spotlight Global Japan Euronews Witness Qatar 365 World News Euronews Debates Football Now Top News Stories Today Featured No Comment No agenda, no argument, no bias, No Comment. Get the story without commentary. EU Policy Business Categories Business Economy Markets Programmes Business Planet Energy Frontiers Focus Real Economy Start Me Up The Dialogue Target The Exchange Featured My Wildest Prediction Dare to imagine the future with business and tech visionaries The Big Question Deep dive conversations with business leaders Travel Categories Travel News Destinations Moments Residences Travel Live TV Programmes Adventures Conscious Travel Explore Golf Travel Tales Notes From The Usa Soul Of The South Taste Women Beyond Borders Next Categories Tech News Money Space Work Mobility Home Artificial intelligence Programmes Dub.AI Hacker Hunter Rethink Sci-Tech Featured Euronews Tech Talks Euronews Tech Talks goes beyond discussions to explore the impact of new technologies on our lives. With explanations, engaging Q&amp;As, and lively conversations, the podcast provides valuable insights into the intersection of technology and society. The Food Detectives Europe&#039;s best food experts are joining forces to crack down on fraud. Euronews is following them in this special series: The Food Detectives Culture Categories Culture news Style Design Art Taste Music Cinema Programmes Creators Crossing Cultures Cry Like A Boy Cult Inspire Saudi Meet The Locals Melting Pot Culture Modern Nomads Musica Scenes The Kitchen The Star Ingredient Green Categories Green News Climate Nature Living Eco-Innovation Programmes Ocean Ocean Calls The Road To Green Featured Water Matters Europe&#039;s water is under increasing pressure. Pollution, droughts, floods are taking their toll on our drinking water, lakes, rivers and coastlines. Join us on a journey around Europe to see why protecting ecosystems matters, how our wastewater can be better managed, and to discover some of the best water solutions. Video reports, an animated explainer series and live debate - find out why Water Matters, from Euronews. Climate Now We give you the latest climate facts from the world’s leading source, analyse the trends and explain how our planet is changing. We meet the experts on the front line of climate change who explore new strategies to mitigate and adapt. Health Categories Health news Healthcare Nutrition Wellbeing Programmes Smart Health Euroviews Videos More Special coverage Climate Global Japan InClassica Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Discover Algeria Young Inventors Prize 2025 Discover Türkiye Discover Sharjah Golf Travel Tales From Qatar Uzbekistan Partner content Classic Violin Competition Farmers&#039; Horizon Be Bold. Discover Saudi Leading Edge Better Connected Powering Progress Experience Brazil Italy – Heritage &amp; Horizons Poland Untold Saadiyat Cultural District Invest in Costa Rica Digital Garden City Nation My Tokyo Sparkle Wine of Moldova Kerala Tourism Turkmenistan - Our story Expo 2025 Osaka, Kansai, Japan Endless Discovery Services Weather Snow Forecast Bulletin Messaging apps Widgets &amp; Services Find Us Log In My Account Live Close menu sidebar English English Français Deutsch Italiano Español Português Polski Pусский Türkçe Ελληνικά Magyar فارسی العربية Shqip Română ქართული български Srpski BHS Latest Trending Iran Davos Greenland War in Ukraine European Union Donald Trump Latest stories Europe News EU Commission to probe Hungary&#039;s defence loan request Europe Today Virkkunen warns X of ‘clear obligations’ amid investigation into Grok No Comment Hundreds of people evacuated in Sicily&#039;s Niscemi after landslide Green News Europe’s most climate-friendly supermarket revealed - see full list Europe Categories EU.XL Europe News Europe Series France United Kingdom Programmes Europe in Motion The Cube The Europe Conversation 12 minutes with Made in Europe Brussels, My Love? Euronews investigates Make it Work Smart Regions Featured Europe Today Euronews&#039; flagship morning TV show with the news and insights that drive Europe, live from Brussels every morning at 08.00. Also available as a newsletter and podcast. The Ring The Ring is Euronews’ weekly political showdown, where Europe’s toughest debates meet their boldest voices. In each episode, two political heavyweights from across the EU face off to propose a diversity of opinions and spark conversations around the most important issues of EU affairs and the wider European political life. World Categories World Davos Iran Greenland USA Programmes Spotlight Global Japan Euronews Witness Qatar 365 World News Euronews Debates Football Now Top News Stories Today Featured No Comment No agenda, no argument, no bias, No Comment. Get the story without commentary. EU Policy Business Categories Business Economy Markets Programmes Business Planet Energy Frontiers Focus Real Economy Start Me Up The Dialogue Target The Exchange Featured My Wildest Prediction Dare to imagine the future with business and tech visionaries The Big Question Deep dive conversations with business leaders Travel Categories Travel News Destinations Moments Residences Travel Live TV Programmes Adventures Conscious Travel Explore Golf Travel Tales Notes From The Usa Soul Of The South Taste Women Beyond Borders Next Categories Tech News Money Space Work Mobility Home Artificial intelligence Programmes Dub.AI Hacker Hunter Rethink Sci-Tech Featured Euronews Tech Talks Euronews Tech Talks goes beyond discussions to explore the impact of new technologies on our lives. With explanations, engaging Q&amp;As, and lively conversations, the podcast provides valuable insights into the intersection of technology and society. The Food Detectives Europe&#039;s best food experts are joining forces to crack down on fraud. Euronews is following them in this special series: The Food Detectives Culture Categories Culture news Style Design Art Taste Music Cinema Programmes Creators Crossing Cultures Cry Like A Boy Cult Inspire Saudi Meet The Locals Melting Pot Culture Modern Nomads Musica Scenes The Kitchen The Star Ingredient Green Categories Green News Climate Nature Living Eco-Innovation Programmes Ocean Ocean Calls The Road To Green Featured Water Matters Europe&#039;s water is under increasing pressure. Pollution, droughts, floods are taking their toll on our drinking water, lakes, rivers and coastlines. Join us on a journey around Europe to see why protecting ecosystems matters, how our wastewater can be better managed, and to discover some of the best water solutions. Video reports, an animated explainer series and live debate - find out why Water Matters, from Euronews. Climate Now We give you the latest climate facts from the world’s leading source, analyse the trends and explain how our planet is changing. We meet the experts on the front line of climate change who explore new strategies to mitigate and adapt. Health Categories Health news Healthcare Nutrition Wellbeing Programmes Smart Health Euroviews Videos More Special coverage Climate Global Japan InClassica Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Discover Algeria Young Inventors Prize 2025 Discover Türkiye Discover Sharjah Golf Travel Tales From Qatar Uzbekistan Partner content Classic Violin Competition Farmers&#039; Horizon Be Bold. Discover Saudi Leading Edge Better Connected Powering Progress Experience Brazil Italy – Heritage &amp; Horizons Poland Untold Saadiyat Cultural District Invest in Costa Rica Digital Garden City Nation My Tokyo Sparkle Wine of Moldova Kerala Tourism Turkmenistan - Our story Expo 2025 Osaka, Kansai, Japan Endless Discovery Services Weather Snow Forecast Bulletin Messaging apps Widgets &amp; Services Newsletter Newsletters Events Events Podcasts Videos Africanews Loader Find Us Advertisement News World Russia Latest US deportations to Russia spark fears over draft notices and FSB intimidation This is the fourth time the U.S. has expelled a group of Russian citizens, many of whom had sought asylum, for several months. -&nbsp; Copyright&nbsp; AP Photo/Julia Demaree Nikhinson Copyright&nbsp;AP Photo/Julia Demaree Nikhinson By&nbsp Alexander Kazakevich Published on 11/12/2025 - 11:23 GMT+1 Share Comments Share Facebook Twitter Flipboard Send Reddit Linkedin Messenger Telegram VK Bluesky Threads Whatsapp Dozens of Russian nationals deported from the United States received military summonses immediately after landing in Moscow, according to human rights activists. Others faced separation from loved ones and FSB threats, family members of deportees told Euronews. The United States deported around 60 Russian nationals to Moscow on Tuesday, with men on the flight receiving military draft notices immediately after landing, according to human rights activist Dmitry Valuev. The deportation flight departed Arizona on 7 December and stopped in Cairo before arriving at Moscow's Domodedovo Airport at 2:39 am local time on 9 December, Valuev, president of Russian America for Democracy in Russia, revealed to Euronews. Passengers on the flight flew in shackles and handcuffs attached to chains across their stomachs, according to relatives of deportees. The Russian Prosecutor General's Office confirmed the detention of Zair Syamiullin, 70, who is wanted in Russia for fraud involving 123 million roubles. The rest of the deportees included rejected asylum seekers and those who overstayed visas, Valuev said. Russia's federal security agency FSB interrogated deportees for several hours before releasing them, according to domestic outlets. Previous deportation cases have seen draft dodgers and activists face imprisonment after being returned to Russia. 'We did not know families could be detained' One deportee, whose husband Egor* spoke to Euronews on condition of anonymity, fled Russia with her family in 2023 after opposing the war in Ukraine. The couple applied for asylum through the CBP One app at the US-Mexico border. "We are not strong public oppositionists, but we are not apolitical and we have always opposed (Russian President Vladimir) Putin," Egor told Euronews. "And when the war started, (we saw that) our relatives were sitting under bombing raids and children in (Russian) schools were being taught to assemble machine guns," he explained his family's motives for leaving Russia. According to him, his son started having problems in kindergarten because he was "broadcasting" his parents' anti-war stance. Egor and his wife Daria lost their jobs. The family entered the US legally through a border appointment after travelling via Cuba, Peru and Mexico. At the border crossing, they were offered to wait for "an answer from Washington" at an asylum-seeker detention centre. "We didn't know that families could be detained and signed all the documents," Egor said. His wife spent nearly two years in Immigration and Customs Enforcement detention centres before deportation, while he and their eight-year-old son were released in January and remain in the US awaiting an asylum decision. Around May 2024, an internal directive prohibited ICE from releasing Russians while they waited for asylum hearings, according to Russian activists and lawyers. Daria's dual citizenship with Ukraine complicated the case. "It is impossible to consider our cases together," US immigration authorities told Egor. "I've been out on my own with my son for almost a year now," he said. For six months, the parents could call their son once a day while he stayed with Mexican host families. A court ruled Daria could be deported to either Russia or Ukraine. The Board of Immigration Appeals upheld the deportation. "We filed a motion in federal court, but the second appeal does not give us the right to stop the deportation," Egor said. On 3 December, he learned "a big deportation was being prepared" when Daria disappeared from the prison's GTL Getting Out messenger service. "So we're lucky," Egor said, as his wife was expected to make eight stops in the US. He tracked the plane via Flightradar24: "The last leg: Phoenix - New York - Cairo - Moscow." In Cairo, around 50 security personnel escorted deportees. Daria "did not have the opportunity to transfer and fly to a third country," Egor said. Her arrival at Domodedovo was immediately followed by FSB interrogation. "She was interrogated with relish: how does she feel about the war? Why did she leave? Where is her husband?" Egor said. "I asked her in advance to calm her pride, it was necessary to save herself and get out of these cithers healthy and unharmed," he said. According to Daria, all men without exception received summonses to the military enlistment centre, even the 68-year-old deportee, with the wording "for clarification of data". Law enforcement also issued surveillance threats, telling Daria they would track her phone once she registered a SIM card in Russia. Deportation patterns This marks the fourth mass deportation of Russian nationals from the US in the past six months. Previous flights occurred in June, August and September. The US established a single deportation route through Egypt in recent months and began coordinating with Egyptian authorities, human rights activists said. Deportees have been unable to transfer to third countries during the layover in Cairo. One previous deportee, Artyom Vovchenko, 26, who abandoned his military post in Russia, was arrested by security officers at a Russian airport after deportation in August. "Russians there are a drop in the ocean of immigrants in reality," Valuev said, noting Venezuela has conducted 75 deportation flights this year, returning nearly 14,000 Venezuelan citizens since February. US Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officers attach handcuffs to a chain, 27 January 2025, Silver Spring, Maryland. AP Photo Valuev said deportation requires "a green light" from the Russian authorities and that deportation lists were submitted in advance to the Russian consulate. However, he does not believe the two sides negotiated to prevent mass detentions on arrival. "I think this is not in the competence of the American authorities. What the American authorities could really do is to give deportable refugees the opportunity to buy tickets to third countries on connecting flights. Moreover, there are such willing persons," he said. "We do not see any special dynamics in the communication between the American authorities and the Russian consulate, except that there was information - we heard from refugees in detention centres - that employees of the Russian consulate visited some immigration prisons personally," Valuev said. "I hope that Russian agents will be exchanged and not just deported. There are still about a dozen American citizens sitting in Russian prisons, by the way," he added, noting that Moscow has stepped up covert operations in Mexico according to The New York Times. Future plans Egor said his wife plans to leave Russia for a third country in the near future. "She won't be able to return to the States - the ban is for 10 years," he said. "You can appeal, but I've already spent so much money on lawyers that the whole cushion has already dried up." His court hearing, scheduled for 19 November, has been postponed until 2027. He will try to "self-deport" by requesting ICE to release him so he can buy tickets to leave. "Beyond that we don't know where to go. I don't really know what the next step is," Egor said. US President Donald Trump's administration is conducting mass deportation campaigns as part of expanded immigration enforcement. As of late August, around 200,000 people had been deported from the US during Trump's second term. The Biden administration quietly resumed deportations to Russia in March 2023 after pausing them in 2022 due to the humanitarian crisis in Ukraine. US Customs and Border Protection reported around 26,580 Russians tried to cross the southern border since October 2022, compared to 467 in fiscal year 2020. Extradition complication A separate case has emerged where Yana Leonova, 33, a Belarusian citizen extradited from France to face charges of smuggling US aviation equipment to Russia, now faces deportation before her trial. Federal prosecutors spent more than a year securing her extradition, but Immigration and Customs Enforcement issued a detention order for her removal shortly after she arrived in November. US Magistrate Judge Zia M Faruqui called the situation "Kafkaesque" in a hearing on Monday. In a written order, he said: "It is both preposterous and offensive for the government to bring someone into the United States against their will and then turn around and seek ICE detention because that person is here 'illegally'." "The government needs to decide what its priorities are: ginning up deportation stats or prosecuting alleged criminals," Faruqui wrote. Neither Belarus nor Russia has extradition agreements with the US, making it virtually impossible to return Leonova if she is deported. Prosecutors have requested that the US Department of Homeland Security grant her temporary legal authorisation to remain in the US while facing charges. "I haven't been in this predicament before, your honour," one prosecutor said at Monday's hearing, according to The Washington Post. "Me, either," Faruqui responded. Go to accessibility shortcuts Share Comments Read more Bavarian AfD proposes ICE-style police unit for deportations Trump administration reaches asylum deal with Dominica under new visa rules Trafficked, exploited, married off: Rohingya children&#039;s lives crushed by foreign aid cuts asylum seeker Deportation USA Russia Immigration War in Ukraine ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Top stories EU inks &#039;mother of all deals&#039; with India amid global trade turmoil Virkkunen warns X of ‘clear obligations’ amid investigation into Grok &#039;Trump is very important for NATO,&#039; alliance&#039;s chief says Border patrol chief Greg Bovino and other agents to leave Minneapolis AI power play: Can Europe catch up with the US and China? ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Most read 1 Carney replies to Trump, says Canada not signing China free trade deal 2 European Commission opens investigation into Elon Musk’s X 3 Exclusive: EU trade chief says trade deal will open India market 4 Iran unveils billboard warning US against taking military action 5 Lightning strike at Brasilia rally injures 89 Bolsonaro supporters ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Loader Search Browse today&#039;s tags Iran Davos Greenland War in Ukraine European Union Donald Trump India European Commission Russia France trade agreement Tourism Themes Europe World Business EU Policy Green Next Health Travel Culture Videos Programmes Services Live Bulletin Weather Latest Follow us Apps Messaging apps Widgets &amp; Services Africanews More About Euronews Commercial Services Terms and Conditions Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Contact Work at Euronews Our journalists Accessibility: non-compliant Modify my cookies choices Follow us Newsletters Copyright © euronews 2026