Title: ‘They shot and killed someone in broad daylight!’ Protesters line Broadway after ICE shootings spark national outrage — The Denver VOICE
Authors: Denver Voice
Published: 2026-01-25 00:00:00

Vigil said immigration enforcement has reshaped her family’s daily life. Her grandmother immigrated to Mexico years ago. Her father was the first in her family born in the United States.

“My grandmother doesn’t go out,” she said. “We’re staying inside. With brown skin, you’re scared you could be arrested or shot, even if you are here legally or you’re a citizen. They’re racially profiling people right now, and it’s a risk to all of us.”

She said she is angered by narratives that immigrants are responsible for crime.

“I’m so tired of the narrative that immigrants are criminals,” Vigil said. “That we come here and commit crimes when that’s not true. I want more people to be angry. I want more people to speak up.”

The National Institute of Justice, a division of the United States Department of Justice, has published studies demonstrating that immigrants commit crimes at significantly lower rates than citizens.

Nearby, nurse Hannah Wolf held a sign reading “Nurses for Jeffrey.” She said she came out after learning that the man killed in Minnesota on 1/24 was a registered nurse.

“It just spoke to me that he was a registered nurse like I am,” Wolf said. “He was just there trying to help people, and he was murdered for it.”

Asked whether she believes what happened could happen to anyone, Wolf didn’t hesitate.

“Definitely,” she said. “If it could happen to a 37-year-old white male that’s a registered nurse, I think it could happen to anyone in America right now.”

She emphasized that ICE's actions are a risk to the lives of citizens, immigrants, and individuals from all backgrounds and cultures.

For AJ, who asked to be identified by only his first name for fear of retaliation by federal agents, protesting was about speaking up before it’s too late.

“If you don’t speak up now and speak up when people are getting trampled in Minnesota, who’s going to speak up for you when it eventually comes to your home state?” he said. “We’re not paid to be here. We’re not domestic terrorists. We’re doing the most American thing there is, protesting your government.”

AJ said he believes Denver and Colorado could be President Donald Trump's next target. He described himself as largely untouched by recent policies but said privilege made silence unacceptable.

Brian Loma said he had been doomscrolling, watching videos from Minnesota in disbelief, before the protest.

“They’re supposed to be focusing on violent criminals,” he said. “Instead, it’s indiscriminate who they target.”

Loma said the number of shots fired, reported as 10, showed zero concern for human life.

"They're just killing people, executing people in the streets, and it's not the Crips or the Bloods. It's the Department of Homeland Security,” he said.

Sandra Brooks said fear is now a constant companion. She experienced homelessness during the COVID-19 pandemic and again in 2025 after she was forced to move out of her daughter's home, and she said that government actions now feel even more threatening.