Groups gather against ICE fatal shooting across Colorado, more protests planned this weekend Skip to content News Classical Indie 102.3 KRCC Listen Live Need help? Donate Search Close Primary Navigation Search Politics Environment Justice Arts Music Classical Indie 102.3 Economy Education Denver Southern Colorado Audio &amp; Radio Ways to Listen Shows and Podcasts CPR News Radio Schedule CPR Classical Indie 102.3 Newsletters All Newsletters The Lookout Denverite About CPR Mission &amp; Vision Staff &amp; Hosts Careers Staff DEI Report Recent Awards Press Room Contact Us Ways to support All the ways to give! Login to the Member Center Make a donation Donate your car Corporate sponsorship CPR Shop Close Primary Navigation Politics Money Arts Justice Environment Newsletter Ways to support Groups gather against ICE fatal shooting across Colorado, more protests planned this weekend By Tony Gorman · Jan. 9, 2026, 6:59 pm Share: Kevin J. Beaty/Denverite A large crowd gathers at the Colorado State Capitol to protest the killing of Renee Good by ICE agents, in Minneapolis. Jan. 9, 2026. Updated at 7:10 p.m. on Friday, January 9, 2026. About a thousand people gathered at the Colorado State Capitol and marched around downtown Denver on Friday to protest the recent killing of a woman by ICE in Minneapolis, Minnesota . The 37-year-old victim, Renee Nicole Macklin Good, was from Colorado Springs and attended Coronado High School. “There has to be something that we can do and fight up against. Because if we can't, then it goes against everything that our founding fathers stood for,” Rachel Sloan said. “I don't understand how we can think that this is okay, for our whole government to just be hiding behind these lies that they're spreading. She's a human being.” Among the speakers at the protest was immigration activist Jeanette Vizguerra, who was recently released after nine months at the GEO detention center in Aurora last month. She led the crowd in chanting “abolish ICE.”&nbsp; Vizguerra was allowed to post a $5,000 bond and will remain free while her deportation case continues.&nbsp; “I felt it was really important to bring awareness here and also to show that we stand in solidarity with the folks in Minneapolis, but also with the folks around the country currently protesting,” Mckenzee Hales, an organizer of the protest, said.&nbsp; Hundreds gather at the Colorado State Capitol to protest the killing of Renee Good by ICE agents, in Minneapolis. Jan. 9, 2026. Jeanette Vizguerra speaks to hundreds gathered at the Colorado State Capitol, protesting the killing of Renee Good by ICE agents in Minneapolis. Jan. 9, 2026. Good was shot and killed in her Honda SUV by ICE agents. She moved with her partner to Minneapolis from the Kansas City area months ago.&nbsp; The Coloradan was married twice. She shared a six-year-old with her second husband, Air Force veteran and comedian Timothy Macklin, Jr., who passed away in 2023. In speaking with the Associated Press, her first husband asked to remain anonymous for the safety of their children, who are ages 15 and 12 . Her current partner, who remains anonymous and was on-scene when the shooting occurred, said that Good was her wife. The Colorado Springs Gazette reported that Good legally petitioned to change her name from Renee Nicole Macklin to Renee Nicole Macklin Good to share names with her current partner. Good’s Colorado connection has sparked reactions and protests throughout the state. Governor Jared Polis called for a full investigation into Good’s death.&nbsp; “What took place in a Minneapolis neighborhood is deeply disturbing, and the loss of Renee Good is tragic,” Polis said in a released statement. “My thoughts are with Renee’s family, especially her young child, friends, and loved ones, including those in Colorado. There must be a full investigation into this incident and accountability. The American people deserve answers about what happened today.” Someone carries a sign reading "open your eyes....they will justify killing you" as hundreds march 16th Street in protest of Renee Good's killing by ICE agents in Minneapolis. Jan. 9, 2026. When asked if Good’s connection to Colorado made the killing hit closer to home? “The fact that she's a person hit home to me,” Sloan said.&nbsp; Protests of about the same size have broken out across the state, and more are scheduled for the weekend.&nbsp; According to KKTV , 30 protesters gathered at the El Paso County Sheriff’s Office Wednesday night. On the same night, protesters in Fort Collins gathered in front of the Hilton Inn Fort Collins to show solidarity with Minneapolis. Saturday: ICE OUT for Good Superior at the Corner of Marshall and McCaslin from 11 a.m.-1 p.m. ICE OUT for Good Boulder at the Corner of Broadway and Canyon from noon-2 p.m. ICE OUT for Good Grand Junction at the Mesa County Courthouse from noon-2 p.m. at the Mesa County Courthouse ICE OUT for Good Greeley at the Weld County Courthouse from 4:30-5:30 p.m.&nbsp; Sunday: Justice for Renee ICE OUT! at the ICE Office in Centennial from 9 a.m. to noon. ICE OUT for Good (Do Good In Honor of Renee) from 1 p.m.-2:30 p.m. at the Colorado Springs City Hall ICE OUT for Good Routt County at 522 Lincoln Ave., Steamboat Springs, at 3:30 p.m. Editor's note: This article was updated to reflect how many people attended a Denver protest. People block traffic on Broadway as a large crowd gathers to protest the killing of Renee Good by ICE agents, in Minneapolis. Jan. 9, 2026. Hugo Pierre-Louis waves a flag over Broadway as a large crowd gathers to protest the killing of Renee Good by ICE agents, in Minneapolis. Jan. 9, 2026. Kevin J. Beaty/Denverite Dorian Gray speaks to a large crowd gathered at the Colorado State Capitol, protesting the killing of Renee Good by ICE agents in Minneapolis. Jan. 9, 2026. Kevin J. Beaty/Denverite Hundreds march 16th Street to protest the killing of Renee Good by ICE agents, in Minneapolis, and President Donald Trump. Jan. 9, 2026. Editor's Note: This story has been updated to fix the spelling of Coronado High School. You care. You want to know what is really going on these days, especially in Colorado. We can help you keep up.&nbsp; The Lookout is a free, daily email newsletter with news and happenings from all over Colorado. Sign up here and we will see you in the morning! Popular Posts Immigration ICE agents leave Ace of Spades ‘death cards’ on detained immigrants’ cars Environment Why a climate startup plans to inject liquid manure a mile deep in Weld County News Man killed Saturday by Border Patrol in Minneapolis has parents who live in Colorado Transportation Unseasonably warm weather contributed to increase in Colorado traffic deaths in 2025 News Former Mesa County Clerk Tina Peters involved in prison altercation, Department of Corrections says Latest Stories Government and Politics Policy differences or punishment? How Colorado lawmakers view Trump’s actions towards the state By Caitlyn Kim News Colorado Ethnic Media Exchange builds coalition to strengthen diverse outlets amid DEI rollbacks, ad support lags By Chandra Thomas Whitfield News As deal deadline approaches, Colorado River stewards debate a broad range of options By KUNC Local 303 The Best of Local 303 For 2025 By Alisha Sweeney Sign Up For Our Newsletters It takes a good day’s drive to cover Colorado, but we’ll help you do it in a few minutes. Our newsletters bring you a closer look at the stories that affect you and the music that inspires you. Get A Newsletter From The Climate Team Sign Up For The Lookout Sign Up For The Quotie Monthly Get The Inside Track On Denver Music Classical Music Playlists And More Upcoming Events Indie 102.3’s January Local 303 Meetup feat: Animal Electricity 6:30pm Skylark Lounge Jan 26 Turn the Page with Colorado Matters and Josh Blue 7:00pm Dairy Arts Center Feb 12 Save the Date: Indie 102.3’s 303 Day 5:00pm Number Thirty Eight Mar 03 Listen to a Colorado Postcard Colorado Postcards are snapshots of our colorful state in sound. They give brief insights into our people and places, our flora and fauna, and our past and present, from every corner of Colorado. Listen now. News That Matters, Delivered To Your Inbox About Us Our Mission Staff and Hosts Careers at CPR General Contest Rules FCC Applications &amp; Files Contact Contact Us Member Support Connect With CPR Opt Out of Targeted Advertising Listen Ways to Listen Listening Help On-Air Schedule Support Make a Donation Donate Your Car Become a Sponsor Corporate Supporters CPR Shop © 2026 Colorado Public Radio. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy . 0:00/0:00