Title: Loved ones gather at vigil for man killed by off-duty ICE agent in Northridge
Published: 2026-01-10 15:34:00+00:00

Loved ones gather at vigil for man killed by off-duty ICE agent in Northridge

CARSON, Calif. (KABC) -- Friends, relatives and civil rights advocates gathered at a candlelight vigil on Saturday night to remember a man killed by an off-duty Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agent in Northridge on New Year's Eve, calling for transparency and accountability in the investigation.

Keith Porter Jr.'s mother was overcome with grief during a candlelight vigil in the community where he was raised. The event marked the second memorial in a week for the 43-year-old father of two, who was shot and killed by the off-duty ICE agent.

"You took our loved one from us. You murdered our loved one, and it's not fair. It's not right," said Porter's sister, Chanita Fata.

According to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), the off-duty ICE agent heard gunfire near his apartment and went to investigate. DHS says the agent then encountered Porter holding a long rifle.

SEE ALSO: Community demands accountability at vigil for father of 2 killed by off-duty ICE agent in Northridge

Advocates say that before Keith Porter was shot and killed by an off-duty ICE agent, he fired gunshots as part of a New Year's Eve celebration.

Advocates say Porter had been firing the gun into the air as a way of observing the holiday -- a practice routinely condemned by law enforcement officials.

"Yes, it was illegal, but at the end of the day, it's an American tradition," said organizer Najee Ali, the director of Project Islamic Hope.

Judy Vaughan, who attended the vigil, echoed that sentiment, saying celebratory gunfire has occurred for decades.

"I'm 80 years old. It's happened as long as I can remember. That's one of the things that happens - people shoot guns as part of fireworks in celebration of the New Year," Vaughan said.

DHS says the agent ordered Porter to put down the weapon and, when he did not comply, the off-duty officer fired his service weapon. The agency claims Porter fired three rounds at the agent before he died.

"This is a human rights issue," Vaughan said.

RELATED: Advocates want legal action after man shot and killed by off-duty ICE agent in Northridge

Advocates argue that the off-duty ICE agent wasn't trained for the situation and should have called police and waited for them to arrive.

The vigil drew people who did not know him personally, including Vaughan, who traveled about 20 miles from Mid-City to attend the memorial instead of joining an anti-ICE protest closer to her home.

"We all need to recognize our shared humanity and come together, and I just want to be here to be a part of this group to say his life is valuable, his life matters, and we need to speak out in as many ways as possible," Vaughan said.

During Friday's Los Angeles City Council meeting, Councilwoman Eunisses Hernandez introduced Porter's mother, Franceola Armstrong, who described her son as a man with a wonderful soul and big heart.

"He didn't deserve this," Armstrong said. "He was on his way back. He didn't even get to pop the Champagne. He didn't get to say goodbye. I just want to touch my baby one last time, kiss his face, and hold him. I don't have him. His life was snatched from us. Lord, please, I just wish you could get justice for my child."

As the Los Angeles Police Department investigates what led up to Porter's final moments, those gathered at the vigil are calling for the off-duty ICE agent to be identified, arrested and charged.

"Hurt, loss. This was my brother. He was my life. He was my kids' life. He was the life of our family," Fata said. "He brought life to wherever he was. He was love... He brought life to wherever he went."

Organizers say they plan to attend the Los Angeles Police Commission meeting on Tuesday to petition the police chief to make the investigation into Porter's death transparent. They also acknowledged the shooting death of Renee Good by an ICE agent in Minnesota earlier this week.