Title: ICE, federal partners arrest more than 1,400 illegal aliens in Massachusetts during Patriot 2.0, including murderers, rapists, drug traffickers, child sex predators and members of violent transnationa
Published: 2025-10-16 00:00:00

BOSTON — ICE and federal law enforcement partners apprehended more than 1,400 illegal aliens during a weeks-long immigration enforcement operation focusing on transnational organized crime, gangs and egregious illegal alien offenders throughout the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. During the surge operation Patriot 2.0, officers from ICE Enforcement and Removal Operations Boston and ICE Homeland Security Investigations New England joined forces with partners from the FBI; U.S. Customs and Border Protection; the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives; the DEA; the U.S. Department of State’s Diplomatic Security Service and the U.S. Marshals Service to arrest an astounding 1,406 illegal alien offenders from Sept. 4 to Sept. 30.

“Patriot 2.0 exposed the grave consequences of sanctuary policies and the urgent need for local leaders to prioritize their constituents’ safety over politics,” said acting ICE Director Todd M. Lyons. “Every illegal alien we arrested during the operation was breaking U.S. immigration law, and hundreds were violent criminals who should never have been allowed to roam freely in our communities. Local law enforcement agencies released them instead of handing them over to us in a secure environment, and this puts neighborhoods, law enforcement officers and illegal aliens at risk. Local politicians are responsible for protecting their constituents, so they need to step up and end irresponsible sanctuary policies.”

More than 600 illegal aliens arrested had significant criminal convictions or pending criminal charges for crimes committed in the United States or were known foreign fugitives. Throughout the duration of Operation Patriot 2.0, ICE and its federal law enforcement partners targeted egregious criminal alien offenders, including transnational criminal organizations known to operate in and around Boston and throughout Massachusetts. These organizations include the notorious MS-13, Tren de Aragua, Trinitarios and 18th Street gangs. Six of those arrested were documented members of transnational criminal gangs while several others were gang associates.

ICE and its federal law enforcement partners prosecuted numerous targets who had foreign arrest warrants and Interpol Red Notices, apprehending criminal alien offenders wanted by authorities in several foreign countries. Three of those arrested were known or suspected terrorists.

“The Commonwealth of Massachusetts is a significantly safer place to live and work thanks to the hard work and determination of the men and women of ICE and our federal partners. Working together, we were able to arrest more than 1,400 illegal aliens throughout the commonwealth, many of whom had significant criminality in the United States or abroad,” said ICE ERO Boston acting Field Office Director David Wesling. “These include criminal offenders who victimized innocent people and traumatized entire communities — murderers, rapists, drug traffickers, child sex predators and members of violent transnational criminal gangs. All made the mistake of attempting to undermine U.S. immigration law by hiding out in Massachusetts.”

“We continue to work alongside our federal partners to rid our great country of murderers, child predators, gang members, drug traffickers and many more,” said ICE HSI New England Special Agent in Charge Michael J. Krol. “Public safety and national security remain our number one priority, and we will not relent.”

“Operation Patriot 2.0 should send a clear and unmistakable message: If you are in this country illegally, hiding out and committing crimes, the FBI and our partners will find you, we will arrest you, and we will remove you from our communities,” said Ted E. Docks, special agent in charge of the FBI’s Boston division. “This latest surge led to the arrests of more than 1,400 illegal aliens, many with violent criminal records. Hundreds were ordered to leave the U.S. but remained here illegally. These are not harmless individuals in search of a better life, they are threats to public safety. The FBI will not sit idly by and let our immigration system be exploited because the rule of law is not optional.”

"The results of Operation Patriot 2.0 make one thing clear: Violent criminals who threaten the safety of our communities will be held accountable. In close partnership with our federal law enforcement colleagues, we have helped arrest dangerous criminals — including murderers, gang members, rapists, sex offenders and drug traffickers — who have no place in our communities. The U.S. Marshals Service will continue to enforce the law to protect the people of Massachusetts and our nation, said District of Massachusetts Acting United States Marshal Kevin Neal.”

ICE and its federal law enforcement partners made many of the apprehensions after local jurisdictions refused to honor immigration detainer requests to turn over the offenders and instead chose to release them from custody, forcing officers and agents to make at-large arrests in Massachusetts communities.

“The U.S. attorney’s office will continue to prioritize working with our law enforcement partners to root out and prosecute individuals who are illegally in the United States and breaking federal laws,” said U.S. Attorney Leah B. Foley. “By removing these individuals, we have made our communities safer.”

Among the alien offenders apprehended during Operation Patriot 2.0, 277 had been previously ordered removed from the United States by a Justice Department immigration judge. However, they refused to comply with their removal orders and remained in the country illegally.

“ATF is always proud to support our federal, state and local law enforcement partners as they work to protect our communities,” said ATF Boston Special Agent in Charge Thomas Greco. “We will continue to seek the removal of anyone engaged in criminal conduct while unlawfully present in the United States.”

”DEA is proud to have worked with our federal partners during Operation Patriot 2.0 to remove violent criminal aliens from our communities," said Special Agent in Charge Jarod Forget, New England Field Division. “DEA has prioritized investigations on those involving violent, illegal criminal aliens responsible for flooding our communities with dangerous drugs. DEA’s core mission is to keep the American public safe by seizing deadly drugs before they get into our communities, and to bring justice to the criminals responsible for manufacturing, distributing and supplying these drugs.”

“The Diplomatic Security Service is proud to stand alongside our federal law enforcement partners to disrupt transnational organized crime and illegal alien offenders in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts,” said DSS Boston Special Agent in Charge Matthew O’Brien. “Operation Patriot 2.0 demonstrates our shared commitment to protecting our communities, upholding the rule of law, and safeguarding national security.”

All aliens detained during Operation Patriot will remain in ICE custody pending the outcome of their removal proceedings or their deportation from the United States.

Members of the public can report crimes and suspicious activity by dialing 866-DHS-2-ICE (866-347-2423) or completing the online tip form.

Learn more about ICE’s mission to increase public safety in our communities on X at @EROBoston and @HSINewEngland.

Among the worst of the worst arrested during operation Patriot 2.0: