2 men detained at Albemarle courthouse in alleged ICE raid Donate Search Query Show Search NEWS LISTEN WATCH Arts &amp; Culture EDUCATION VPM Early Childhood Care &amp; Education Science Matters VPM Early Childhood Care &amp; Education Science Matters Schedules SUPPORT About VPM Our Impact My Account Copyright © 2025 VPM, all rights reserved. PBS is a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization. Menu Show Search Search Query Donate Play Live Radio Next Up: 0:00 0:00 Available On Air Stations On Air Now Playing VPM News On Air Now Playing VPM Music Radio Streams NEWS LISTEN WATCH Arts &amp; Culture EDUCATION VPM Early Childhood Care &amp; Education Science Matters VPM Early Childhood Care &amp; Education Science Matters Schedules SUPPORT About VPM Our Impact My Account VPM News 2 men detained at Albemarle courthouse in alleged ICE raid VPM | By Meghin Moore , Hannah Davis-Reid Published&nbsp;April 23, 2025 at 7:16 PM EDT Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Listen &bull; 1:11 Shaban Athuman / VPM News People gather outside of the Albemarle County Courthouse in Charlottesville Wednesday, April 23, 2025, to protest the detention of two people by alleged plainclothes ICE officers on Tuesday. The county’s chief prosecutor says similar actions “would constitute a grave danger to our community.” On Tuesday morning, two men were detained by purported plainclothes US Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials at the Albemarle County Courthouse. There were at least three officials in the courthouse who did not fully identify themselves, according to Nicholas Reppucci, who works with the Albemarle County Public Defender’s Office. The office was representing Teodoro Dominguez Rodriguez, one of the men who was later detained. VPM News has not yet been able to identify the second detainee. Reppucci was only in the building briefly, as different members of his office attended court for the proceedings.“None of us saw any identification, any badges, and no one said they had a warrant, showed a warrant, or identified themselves as law enforcement. And one, as seen in the video, is clearly hiding his identity,” Reppucci said. The incident was first reported in The Daily Progress , which also obtained footage of one of the detentions. In the video, a man is approached in an unrestricted portion of the courthouse lobby and restrained by multiple people (including one person wearing a full-face balaclava) as several others pulled out their phones while asking what was happening. The video ends as the man is escorted out of the building. Reppucci said a possible ICE agent was spotted in a courtroom, which is in the building’s secured area beyond a metal detector — where cellphones are to be turned off. “It became clear that there was one member of ICE — or allegedly ICE, I should say — in the courtroom observing and two people, one concealing his identity, in the outer lobby area,” Reppucci told VPM News. “So I don't believe — in reviewing the video, because I was not present for that — that the two individuals detaining the person ever actually physically entered the courtroom or necessarily went through the metal detector.” Local courthouse security is under the purview of the Albemarle County Sheriff’s Office, led by Chan Bryant. VPM News reached out to the sheriff for comment, but did not hear back by the time of publication. In February, Gov. Glenn Youngkin signed an executive order calling for the creation of joint task forces out of state agencies to enforce federal immigration law by cooperating with federal officials. Earlier this week, Youngkin announced that the task force had arrested 521 migrants his office described as “criminal illegal immigrants.” Virginia code permits state law enforcement officers to conduct warrantless arrests after receiving confirmation from ICE that an immigrant is in the country illegally and has been previously convicted of a felony — under certain circumstances. But state law says that any person arrested under that provision “ shall be brought forthwith ” before a magistrate or similar authority to determine whether there is probable cause that they committed a crime. The Albemarle public defender’s office did not know that ICE officials were going to be in the courthouse, nor did the federal agency or a deputized authority tell the public defender’s office that they were going to take people into custody, according to Reppucci. “At some point, it became pretty clear that there were three people there that were not normally there, and that something was going to happen, although they never identified themselves,” Reppucci said. Dominguez Rodriguez’s charges were dismissed, according to general district court records, before he possibly was taken into federal custody. VPM News reached out to ICE for comment but did not hear back by the time of publication. Reppucci said the public defender’s office has “no ability” to intervene in federal legal matters, as public defenders represent people they’ve been appointed to represent — on state court matters heard by state court judges in both the city of Charlottesville and Albemarle County. In an emailed statement to VPM News, Albemarle Commonwealth’s Attorney Jim Hingeley said he was not at the courthouse when the arrests happened “by individuals who claimed they were law enforcement agents from the Department of Homeland Security.” “Because I do not have firsthand knowledge, I am investigating the circumstances of the courthouse arrests,” he said. “The information I have reviewed so far indicates that these alleged law enforcement agents did not display a badge or other indication of authority that would empower them to make lawful arrests in these circumstances.” Hingeley also said that further actions like Tuesday’s arrests “would constitute a grave danger to our community.” Reppucci said his office has not been able to speak to Dominguez Rodriguez since his detainment, and they have no idea where he is as of press time. He also doesn’t know if the federal government would update the public defender’s office as to his status because legally, the man no longer has an open case in Albemarle. The Albemarle Public Defender’s Office is trying to come up with a plan to advise clients, witnesses and the public at large on how to respond to a situation like this, Reppucci said, because “this has caused anxiety in large segments of our community.” “Court is here for everybody in the community,” he said. “It's a public space where we can solve disputes, whether civil or criminal, with due process, and it's going to make it harder for both defendants and, quote, unquote, victims to get a fair shake in court, if people are less willing to come to court and tell the truth about what they know happened in a public situation.” In response to Tuesday’s detainments, several dozen protesters lined the sidewalk outside the courthouse on Wednesday afternoon, waving signs and chanting. It was not immediately clear who organized the protest, though several social media accounts — including the Charlottesville Democratic Committee — credited local Quakers. One of the demonstrators, Robert Fudge, said he didn’t feel like he was in the US while watching the footage published by The Daily Progress. “It was the kind of thing that [the] KGB would do, roughing up people and carting them away,” he told VPM News. “That's not America, and I'm pretty upset about that.” Another protester told VPM News that as detentions mount, some immigrants may feel unsafe in courthouses, regardless of immigration status. “I just don't see why you would attack a state's judicial system by taking people in a courthouse if you didn't want people to be afraid of going,” they said. Wednesday’s demonstrators said they were pushing for local and state officials to refuse compliance with ICE. 1 of 14 &nbsp;&mdash;&nbsp;People protest outside of the Albemarle County courthouse with signs and American flag People gather outside of the Albemarle County courthouse to protest against ICE’s detention of two people on Wednesday, April 23, 2025 in Charlottesville, Virginia. Alleged plain clothed ICE officers detrained two men without an explanation on Tuesday. Shaban Athuman / VPM News 2 of 14 &nbsp;&mdash;&nbsp;People protest outside of the Albemarle County courthouse with signs and ‘American flag People watch outside of the Albemarle County courthouse as people protest against ICE’s detention of two people on Wednesday, April 23, 2025 in Charlottesville, Virginia. Alleged plain clothed ICE officers detrained two men without an explanation on Tuesday. Shaban Athuman / VPM News 3 of 14 &nbsp;&mdash;&nbsp;People protest outside of the Albemarle County courthouse with signs People gather outside of the Albemarle County courthouse to protest against ICE’s detention of two people on Wednesday, April 23, 2025 in Charlottesville, Virginia. Alleged plain clothed ICE officers detrained two men without an explanation on Tuesday. Shaban Athuman / VPM News 4 of 14 &nbsp;&mdash;&nbsp;People protest outside of the Albemarle County courthouse with signs A person raises a sign as they drives past people gather outside of the Albemarle County courthouse to protest against ICE’s detention of two people on Wednesday, April 23, 2025 in Charlottesville, Virginia. Alleged plain clothed ICE officers detrained two men without an explanation on Tuesday. Shaban Athuman / VPM News 5 of 14 &nbsp;&mdash;&nbsp;People protest outside of the Albemarle County courthouse with signs People gather outside of the Albemarle County courthouse to protest against ICE’s detention of two people on Wednesday, April 23, 2025 in Charlottesville, Virginia. Alleged plain clothed ICE officers detrained two men without an explanation on Tuesday. Shaban Athuman / VPM News 6 of 14 &nbsp;&mdash;&nbsp;Wolff leans on a flag during a protest Kirk Wolff, a former Navy veteran, leans on his flag during a protest against ICE’s detention of two people at the Albemarle County courthouse on Wednesday, April 23, 2025 in Charlottesville, Virginia. Alleged plain clothed ICE officers detrained two men without an explanation on Tuesday. Shaban Athuman / VPM News 7 of 14 &nbsp;&mdash;&nbsp;People protest outside of the Albemarle County courthouse with signs People gather outside of the Albemarle County courthouse to protest against ICE’s detention of two people on Wednesday, April 23, 2025 in Charlottesville, Virginia. Alleged plain clothed ICE officers detrained two men without an explanation on Tuesday. Shaban Athuman / VPM News 8 of 14 &nbsp;&mdash;&nbsp;People protest outside of the Albemarle County courthouse with signs People gather outside of the Albemarle County courthouse to protest against ICE’s detention of two people on Wednesday, April 23, 2025 in Charlottesville, Virginia. Alleged plain clothed ICE officers detrained two men without an explanation on Tuesday. Shaban Athuman / VPM News 9 of 14 &nbsp;&mdash;&nbsp;People protest outside of the Albemarle County courthouse with signs People gather outside of the Albemarle County courthouse to protest against ICE’s detention of two people on Wednesday, April 23, 2025 in Charlottesville, Virginia. Alleged plain clothed ICE officers detrained two men without an explanation on Tuesday. Shaban Athuman / VPM News 10 of 14 &nbsp;&mdash;&nbsp;People protest outside of the Albemarle County courthouse with signs People gather outside of the Albemarle County courthouse to protest against ICE’s detention of two people on Wednesday, April 23, 2025 in Charlottesville, Virginia. Alleged plain clothed ICE officers detrained two men without an explanation on Tuesday. Shaban Athuman / VPM News 11 of 14 &nbsp;&mdash;&nbsp;People protest outside of the Albemarle County courthouse with signs Mary Gordon Hall joins other people gathered outside of the Albemarle County courthouse to protest against ICE’s detention of two people on Wednesday, April 23, 2025 in Charlottesville, Virginia. Alleged plain clothed ICE officers detrained two men without an explanation on Tuesday. Shaban Athuman / VPM News 12 of 14 &nbsp;&mdash;&nbsp;Two people who did not want their names published embrace Two people embraces following a protest against ICE’s detention of two people at the Albemarle County courthouse on Wednesday, April 23, 2025 in Charlottesville, Virginia. Alleged plain clothed ICE officers detrained two men without an explanation on Tuesday. Shaban Athuman / VPM News 13 of 14 &nbsp;&mdash;&nbsp;Peppucci gives remarks Nicholas Reppucci, head of the Charlottesville Office of the Public Defender, gives remarks about one of his clients who was detained by ICE at the Albemarle County courthouse on Wednesday, April 23, 2025 in Charlottesville, Virginia. Alleged plain clothed ICE officers detrained two men without an explanation on Tuesday. Shaban Athuman / VPM News 14 of 14 &nbsp;&mdash;&nbsp;Peppucci leaves after giving remarks Nicholas Reppucci, head of the Charlottesville Office of the Public Defender, leaves after giving remarks about one of his clients who was detained by ICE at the Albemarle County courthouse on Wednesday, April 23, 2025 in Charlottesville, Virginia. Alleged plain clothed ICE officers detrained two men without an explanation on Tuesday. Shaban Athuman / VPM News Tags VPM News Immigration Virginia Impacts Albemarle County Charlottesville National Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Meghin Moore Meghin Moore is a VPM News editor. She's a Penn State graduate with a background in broadcast and digital journalism. Previously, she worked at The Daily Progress in Charlottesville. See stories by Meghin Moore Hannah Davis-Reid Hannah covers the Charlottesville area for VPM News. See stories by Hannah Davis-Reid Support Local News and Stories: How You Help Sustain VPM Community members – like you – sustain VPM so we can deliver local news coverage, educational programming and inspiring stories. Your donations make it possible. Support Now VPM News Morning Monitor is a daily newsletter that keeps you informed on news you care about. Explore More Newsletters Latest News VPM News Youngkin announces arrests of more than 500 immigrants by security task force VPM News Richmonders push for schools funding, employee raises at council VPM News Federal reports paint conflicting Virginia jobs pictures VPM News Repair Cafe RVA works to keep Richmonders’ favorite items in use longer VPM News Richmond kicks off Cool the City campaign You Might Also Like NPR News What to know as the government begins collections on defaulted student debt Rachel Treisman , April 23, 2025 The Department of Education says it will resume collections on May 5 and send wage garnishment notices "later this summer." VPM News On the agenda: Richmond budget amendments, Ashcake Road Landfill expansion Dean Mirshahi , April 21, 2025 Public meeting highlights in Central Virginia for the week beginning April 21. VPM News Photos: Protest at the Virginia State Capitol Shaban Athuman , April 19, 2025 The Richmond protest was one of many that took place across the country on April 19. VPM News Democratic primary interest, canceled teacher grants and Richmond zoning update VPM News , April 19, 2025 Take a look at this week's top VPM News stories. VPM News VCU protest spotlights cancellation of student visas at Virginia colleges Megan Pauly , April 18, 2025 At least 35 students have had visas terminated across the commonwealth. Listen &bull; 1:06 VPM News Museums, libraries and cultural groups grapple with federal humanities cuts Chris Suarez , April 16, 2025 The cuts could imperil efforts to preserve historic documents and provide cultural education. VPM News US judge presses Trump administration on its refusal to return Kilmar Abrego Garcia The Associated Press , April 16, 2025 The U.S. Supreme Court ordered the Trump administration to return him. So far, the White House has refused, claiming he's in the MS-13 gang. NPR News &#x27;Homegrowns are next&#x27;: Trump hopes to deport and jail U.S. citizens abroad Brian Mann , April 16, 2025 Trump hopes to deport and imprison U.S. citizens abroad. Critics say the concept is unconstitutional and dangerous. Listen &bull; 4:11 Load More Support Local News and Stories: How You Help Sustain VPM Community members – like you – sustain VPM so we can deliver local news coverage, educational programming and inspiring stories. Your donations make it possible. Support Now Newsletter Signup twitter instagram youtube facebook linkedin 23 Sesame Street Richmond, VA 23235 804.320.1301 Do I Have Passport? My Account Schedule Streaming VPM Contact Us Become a Business Sponsor Employment Opportunities Internship Opportunities Content Submissions for VPM Pressroom Media Sponsorships Notices, Policies and Reports Productions Services &amp; Rentals A New Home for VPM Copyright © 2025 VPM, all rights reserved. PBS is a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization.