Anti-ICE agitators arrested at Minneapolis airport during demonstration | Fox News Recommended Videos Recommended Articles Left Arrow Well-known Texas attorney’s wife among victims of deadly private jet crash in Maine Retired NYPD officer collapses, dies shoveling snow for churchgoers during devastating Northeast winter storm SEE IT: Missing teen drives stolen SUV over 115 mph, crosses into oncoming traffic before rollover crash Virginia school safety director charged with DUI after winter storm 'Doomsday Clock' ticks closer to midnight over global threats, group says Utah children’s author Kouri Richins says state threatened witnesses ahead of trial in husband’s poisoning Border Patrol involved in Arizona shooting, one person injured, local authorities say VCU anti-ICE nurse references paralytic drug in video instructing healthcare providers to 'sabotage' agents Los Angeles homeowner opens fire on burglary suspects fleeing in Studio City neighborhood Florida man allegedly tells victim 'sorry... I need to see my grandmother' during armed carjacking University of Michigan student vanishes from fraternity party in T-shirt during sub-zero night Repeat offender on parole for murder tied to brutal jail assault, escape hours after robbery Minn 'Antifa' member claims he's 'on the run' after calling for 'armed' men to confront immigration officials Texas teen dies after Jeep-pulled sled strikes curb and tree during severe winter storm Chinese spies 'sham marriage' scandal exposes 'targeted' national security threat at major US base: expert FBI investigating Minnesota anti-ICE Signal group chats, Patel says California toddler falls out of moving car, mother charged Federal appeals court sides with the Trump administration in Minnesota and more top headlines 'Mob mentality' endangers officers amid anti-ICE unrest and chaos in Minneapolis, retired cops warn Anti-ICE agitators arrested outside Minnesota hotel as police declare unlawful assembly: 'No longer peaceful' Right Arrow Left Arrow Tom Homan has served both party’s administrations, made clear his focus is on ‘the worst of the worst’: Jessica Tarlov Mike Lawler calls for immigration solution after Minneapolis unrest Trump laments deadly shootings in Minnesota, insists Bovino-Homan shakeup not a 'pullback' Steve Hilton: Trump is doing exactly what he promised voters in his campaign Federal law under the Constitution is always 'supreme': John Yoo Agitators swarm Minnesota capitol and chant outside Tim Walz’s office WATCH: Bald eagle Shadow gets first look at 2026's newest laid egg in California nest Jury selection underway in landmark social media trial accusing big tech of purposefully designing addictive platforms Georgia teen arrested after stolen SUV flips during police chase ‘It’s everything you could imagine’: Plow truck driver describes icy conditions in historic DC winter storm Morgan Freeman says he’s ‘almost ready to retire’ after 60-year Hollywood career Kevin Costner drawn to ‘powerful’ Civil War story of women risking everything Emergency vehicles surround Maine plane crash site, 6 dead Dems SLAMMED for creating a ‘WAR ZONE’ for ICE agents The ‘nose ring militia’ has been activated: Mauro Minnesota fraud a ‘canary in the coal mine’ for election integrity concerns: RITE CEO Winter storm prompts debate over snow days vs remote learning days WATCH: Melania opens up about giving advice to Trump SHOCKING: Infant falls out of moving car in California Virginia Commonwealth University nurse instructs TikTok followers to contaminate ICE agents' food, jab opponents with paralytic Right Arrow close Video Anti-ICE protesters gather at Minneapolis–Saint Paul International Airport A large crowd of anti-ICE protesters were seen picketing outside Minneapolis–Saint Paul International Airport on Friday, Jan. 23, 2026. (Credit: KMSP) NEW You can now listen to Fox News articles! Multiple anti-ICE agitators were arrested at the Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport ( MSP ) Friday after a crowd of protesters showed up despite frigid temperatures demanding airlines take a stand against federal immigration enforcement. Faith in Minnesota, a group of religious activists "calling for racial and economic justice in Minnesota," posted a video of the arrests on social media, claiming more than 100 clergy and faith leaders were arrested. Agitators were seen lined up on their knees, as police led them one by one to a bus for transport to jail. "In -20° weather, over 100 clergy and faith leaders were arrested at MSP Airport as they gathered in peaceful, prayerful resistance to demand airlines—especially Delta and Signature Aviation—stand with Minnesotans and say #ICEOutOfMN," the organization wrote. "… This must end." A person is detained by police during a demonstration at the Minneapolis-Saint Paul International airport amid a surge of federal immigration authorities in the area in St. Paul, Minn. (Brandon Bell/Getty Images) VICE PRESIDENT JD VANCE TO VISIT MINNEAPOLIS, SOURCE SAYS, AMID UNREST OVER ICE OPERATIONS Law enforcement has not yet confirmed the number of arrests. Faith in Minnesota alleged more than 2,000 deportations have run through the airport, claiming MSP employees have been detained by ICE at work and while commuting. The Metropolitan Airports Commission told affiliate FOX 9 Minneapolis it "worked in advance with event organizers to best accommodate their right to freedom of expression while also ensuring uninterrupted operations at MSP Airport." Anti-ICE protesters line up after being detained during a demonstration at the Minneapolis-Saint Paul International airport. (Brandon Bell/Getty Images) MINNESOTA POLICE CHIEFS ALLEGE SOME ICE AGENTS RACIALLY PROFILED US CITIZENS, INCLUDING OFF-DUTY OFFICERS The approved demonstration permit limited where protesters could gather and how many could attend, in order to maintain public safety, according to FOX 9. "When the permitted activity went beyond the agreed-upon terms, MSP Airport Police began taking necessary action, including arrests, to protect public safety, airport security and access to Terminal 1," the commission told FOX 9. Meanwhile, unlawful protests broke out at the Whipple Federal Building, where demonstrators gathered following the Jan. 7 fatal shooting of Renee Nicole Good by an ICE agent, prompting a dispersal order from the Hennepin County Sheriff's Office and assisting agencies. Protesters attend a demonstration at the Minneapolis-Saint Paul International airport amid a surge of federal immigration authorities in the area in St. Paul, Minn. (Brandon Bell/Getty Images) MINNESOTA AGITATORS STALK, PELT BORDER PATROL AGENTS WITH FOOD AND SPIT AT GAS STATIONS, DHS SAYS "Deputies have been on the ground for the last few hours and made several attempts to ask protesters to unblock an access road," the sheriff's office wrote in a statement on X. "The group was clear that they will not unblock the road. Deputies have explained what will happen if they do not comply with the lawful orders. We've given them time to move. "There have been ice chunks thrown at multiple vehicles, breaking windows. Deputies have given three dispersal orders for an unlawful protest. Individuals who do not comply with orders and those who continue unlawful behavior have been and will continue to be arrested. Please avoid the area." CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD THE FOX NEWS APP A march is scheduled in downtown Minneapolis on Friday afternoon as part of "ICE Out of Minnesota: A Day of Truth and Freedom." Hundreds of businesses closed , citing support for those detained by ICE, according to FOX 9. Alexandra Koch is a Fox News Digital journalist who covers breaking news, with a focus on high-impact events that shape national conversation. She has covered major national crises, including the L.A. wildfires, Potomac and Hudson River aviation disasters, Boulder terror attack, and Texas Hill Country floods. True Crime The hottest stories ripped from the headlines, from crime to courts, legal and scandal. Arrives Weekly By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button, you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use , and
        agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News. You understand that you can
        opt-out at any time. Subscribe Subscribed Subscribe You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter! Continue