100 clergy arrested at Minneapolis-St. Paul airport during ICE protest - UPI.com Trending India, EU Yellow Sea ICE Olympics Jeju police bust Failure museum North Korea TSA odd finds Mexico, Cuba U.S. News Jan. 23, 2026 / 11:48 AM		 / Updated Jan. 23, 2026 at 8:36 PM 100 clergy arrested at Minneapolis-St. Paul airport during ICE protest By Lisa Hornung 1 of 8 | Thousands of protesters march in sub-zero temperatures during "ICE Out" day to protest the federal government's immigration enforcement surge in Minneapolis on Friday. Photo by Craig Lassig/UPI | License Photo Jan. 23 (UPI) -- More than 100 clergy were arrested at Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport on Friday during a protest of federal immigration enforcement in the city. Organizers said they were arrested by airport staff and local law enforcement. A spokesperson for the Metropolitan Airports Commission told CNN that the group had pre-approved permits. "The approved demonstration permit set a dedicated location and maximum number of participants to maintain the safety of protestors, passengers and airport employees," he said in a statement. "When the permitted activity went beyond the agreed-upon terms, MSP Airport Police began taking necessary action, including arrests, to protect public safety, airport security and access to Terminal 1." He didn't specify what led to the arrests. Related Vance blames local officials for 'chaotic' immigration action in Minn. ICE detains 5-year-old, 3 other children in Minnesota school district Federal appeals court okays ICE's use of force against protesters Minnesota police chief: ICE agents drew guns on off-duty officer DOJ subpoenas Minnesota elected officials Walz, Frey, Her and others Organizers said the group told The Guardian that they "prayed together, sang songs and hymns, and shared stories of those who have been abducted by ICE while at work or commuting to and from the airport." People called out of work, businesses shut down and people avoided spending money in Minnesota Friday as a protest of the federal agents surge in their state. The general strike day is called ICE Out of Minnesota: Day of Truth and Freedom, and the organizers have called for people to boycott work, school and shopping. The strike calls for an immediate end to Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents in the state and charges for the ICE agent who shot and killed Renee Nicole Good. It also demands no more funding for ICE in the next federal budget. "It's tense and emotional, and folks are hurting," Bishop Dwayne Royster, executive director of Faith in Action, told The New York Times . He said Minnesotans are showing their "deep resilience and willingness to stand together in ways I haven't seen folks do in a very long time." The day of the protest was difficult for those braving the weather, as Minnesota is under an extreme cold warning on Friday. Temperatures in the Twin Cities are expected to drop to minus 20 degrees, with wind chills of minus 41 degrees. A march was held at 2 p.m. CST in Minneapolis, and prayer vigils were conducted in communities throughout the state. The city has been under tension for weeks since the agents arrived. Good was killed by ICE agent Jonathan Ross on Jan. 7. Federal prosecutors recently subpoenaed Gov. Tim Walz, Mayor Jacob Frey and other Democratic elected officials. A Nicaraguan detainee died in ICE custody of an apparent suicide. On Thursday, a 5-year-old boy was detained with his father, and three other children reportedly were detained. Three activists were arrested after a protest during a church service . Vice President JD Vance visited the city Thursday to "restore law and order" in the city, and he blamed local officials for the "chaotic" ICE enforcement. The cities of Minneapolis and St. Paul and the state of Minnesota have filed a federal lawsuit to stop the federal action in their cities and state. Minneapolis native Kimberly Chase, 64, protested the Vance speech Thursday and told The Washington Post that her niece and her classmates had talked about digging a hole on school property to hide from ICE agents if they came to their school. "We're being invaded at all levels of society from kids to old people," Chase told The Post. "But it's not working. If anything, it's making our community tighter." Many local businesses in the Twin Cities were closed on Friday. "There's a time to stand up for things, and this is it," Alison Kirwin, the owner of Al's Breakfast, told The New York Times . Her restaurant in Minneapolis closed on Friday. "If it takes away from a day of our income, that is worthwhile." In an email on Thursday, a Department of Homeland Security official told The Times that the strike was "beyond insane." He asked, "Why would these labor bosses not want these public safety threats out of their communities?" "What we have experienced and are experiencing in the state of Minnesota is not normal," said JaNaé Bates Imari, auxiliary minister at Camphor Memorial United Methodist Church in St. Paul, at a Jan. 13 news conference, The Post reported. "We have witnessed violence over and over again, families being ripped apart, loved ones being torn from their hospital beds, from their workplaces, from their homes. "We cannot allow this to continue," Bates Imari said. "If you ever wondered for yourself, when is the time that we do something different, when is the time that we stand up ... the time is now." Homeland Security Secretary Kristi L. Noem said on X Monday that the agency had arrested more than 10,000 undocumented immigrants in Minneapolis. She provided no evidence of that number. Christa Sarrack, president of a labor union that represents about 6,000 of Minnesota's hospitality workers, said the one-day strike might be the largest worker action in Minnesota history. She told The Times that some of the union members' employers had decided to close for the day, and others were allowing employees to not come to work. "We cannot simply sit by and allow this to continue," Sarrack said. "We must use every tool that we have to fight back." Some coffee shops planned to close but open their doors for people to come inside and warm up, offering free coffee and sign-making materials, The Post said. A brewery planned to offer free hot dogs. Other businesses said they would stay open to help employees who needed the wages but would donate some revenue to local nonprofits. This week in Washington Paris Hilton speaks during a press conference in support of the Defiance Act outside the U.S. Capitol on Thursday. The Defiance Act, which has passed in the Senate, would allow victims the federal civil right to sue individuals responsible for creating AI-generated "deepfake" pornographic images. Photo by Bonnie Cash/UPI | License Photo Topics Law and Crime Politics Business Jonathan Ross Immigration & Border Security Latest Headlines U.S. News // 1 hour ago Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz meets with border czar Tom Homan Jan. 27 (UPI) -- Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz met with President Donald Trump's border czar, Tom Homan, on Tuesday to discuss the ICE enforcement surge in the state. U.S. News // 1 hour ago Net migration decline slows U.S. population growth in 2025 Jan. 27 (UPI) -- The net growth of the U.S. population slowed to the lowest point since the pandemic due to a decrease in net migration in 2025 U.S. News // 1 hour ago Families of 2 Trinidadian men file wrongful death suit for boat strike Jan. 27 (UPI) -- The families of two Trinidadian men killed in a U.S. boat strike in the Caribbean sued the United States Tuesday for their wrongful deaths. U.S. News // 4 hours ago UPS to reduce workforce by 30,000; has retired all MD-11 planes Jan. 27 (UPI) -- UPS announced Tuesday that it plans to cut its workforce by 30,000 this year in a move to cut expenses as Amazon cuts its use of the company. U.S. News // 5 hours ago Trump whistleblower Lt. Col. Alex Vindman runs for Senate in Florida Jan. 27 (UPI) -- Alex Vindman, who testified against President Donald Trump in his first impeachment trial, said he will run for Senate in Florida as a Democrat. U.S. News // 6 hours ago Minnesota judge orders head of ICE to appear in federal court Jan. 27 (UPI) -- A federal judge in Minnesota has summoned the acting director of ICE to appear in a Minneapolis court on Friday or be held in contempt. U.S. News // 7 hours ago Social media companies face trials for alleged addictive design Jan. 27 (UPI) -- Meta, Snap, TikTok and YouTube will face accusers in a series of lawsuits alleging that they intentionally design their platforms to be addictive. U.S. News // 7 hours ago Deepfake porn apps downloaded 705 million times on Apple, Google Jan. 27 (UPI) -- The Apple and Google app stores have applications that generate images of women with their clothes removed with AI, a tech watchdog reported Tuesday. U.S. News // 18 hours ago Some federal immigration agents to depart Minneapolis on Tuesday, mayor says Jan. 26 (UPI) -- Minneapolis Mayor Jacob Frey said Monday after speaking with President Donald Trump that some federal immigration agents will begin withdrawing from the city on Tuesday. U.S. News // 15 hours ago Buffalo mayor limits city cooperation with federal immigration enforcement Jan. 27 (UPI) -- Buffalo Mayor Sean Ryan has issued an executive order limiting the city's government from assisting with federal civil immigration enforcement. Trending Stories Mexico's president confirms suspension of oil deliveries to Cuba U.S. warships arrive in Indian Ocean amid Iranian crackdown on protesters ICE to be in Milan for Olympics; mayor says they're 'not welcome' India, EU sign 'mother of all' free trade agreements S. Korea calls China's removal of steel tower in Yellow Sea 'meaningful progress' Follow Us