Village of Broadview, IL protest: 21 arrested outside ICE facility as protesters clash with police; 4 officers injured - ABC7 Chicago 24/7 Live Chicago &amp; Suburban Cook Co. North Suburbs West Suburbs South Suburbs NW Indiana immigration 21 arrested outside Broadview ICE detention center as protesters clash with police; 4 officers hurt I-Team obtains details on list of more than 600 migrants judge ordered to be released by next Friday; protest held in East Side By Stephanie Wade , Maher Kawash , Eric Horng , and Barb Markoff, Christine Tressel and Tom Jones Saturday, November 15, 2025 BROADVIEW, Ill. (WLS) -- The departure from Chicago of Border Patrol Chief Gregory Bovino has done little to ease tensions in the area, and that was evident at demonstrations in the city and suburbs on Friday. Twenty one people were arrested and four police officers were injured Friday as protesters clashed with police outside a Broadview U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement facility. There was a large protest Friday morning outside the building, and another protest was also held later in the day in Chicago&#x27;s East Side neighborhood one month after a clash occurred there . Meanwhile, the ABC7 I-Team obtained new details Friday night on the list submitted by the DHS of the more than 600 detained migrants that a judge has ordered to be released by next Friday. ABC7 Chicago is now streaming 24/7. Click here to watch Just after 10 a.m., protesters moved from their designated zone, resulting in a clash with police. Protesters were pushed back, and several were detained. It was the largest crowd seen in Broadview in recent weeks. Members from the faith community were leading hundreds of people in the anti-ICE protest. They had hoped for it be non-violent. It was expected to be a prayer vigil with faith leaders requesting access inside the building. Counter-protesters were also present. Cook County sheriff&#x27;s deputies, Illinois State Police and Broadview police were trying to hold the line. Some were in tactical gear, wearing face masks and holding batons and zip ties. Those arrested range in age from 25 to 69. They were charged with obstruction/disorderly conduct, officials said. SEE ALSO: Chicago federal intervention: Tracking surge in immigration enforcement operations | Live updates A federal judge has ordered the release of hundreds of migrants arrested in the Chicago area, including some arrested under the Department of Homeland Security&#x27;s &quot;Operation Midway Blitz,&quot; by Nov. 21 after finding their arrests could have violated a 2022 consent decree. U.S. District Judge Jeffrey Cummings sided with attorneys for the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) and the National Immigrant Justice Center (NIJC) representing detainees who said DHS violated a consent decree that limits the ability of federal agents to conduct warrantless arrests. Cummings ordered 13 people to be released by Friday at noon, and another 615 people will be released into &quot;alternatives-to-detention&quot; which could include electronic monitoring by next Friday, Nov. 21. The National Immigrant Justice Center said some were released. It&#x27;s not clear where the rest are being held. It&#x27;s possible some are in Broadview. The ABC7 I-Team obtained new details Friday night on the list submitted by the DHS of the more than 600 detained migrants that a judge has ordered to be released by next Friday. The judge had ruled that those 614 people should not be in custody while it&#x27;s determined whether they were arrested in violation of a previous consent decree - unless they posed a &quot;high public safety risk.&quot; According to the list from DHS, that ABC7 obtained from a court filing, 42 people were categorized as posing a &quot;high&quot; risk, and 101 people on the list are no longer in custody. That leaves at least 471 people who could be eligible for release by next Friday, pending an appeal by the government. DHS asked the judge to pause the release of hundreds of immigrants as the Trump administration considered an appeal. The federal judge is now requiring attorneys for the detainees to respond by Monday. DHS says the judge who ordered this release is putting American lives at risk. SEE ALSO: Judge, attorneys inspect Broadview ICE facility amid &#x27;inhumane conditions&#x27; allegations Protests Friday afternoon in Broadview were calmer. Broadview Mayor Katrina Thompson said in a statement that two Broadview police officers, one state trooper and a Cook County sheriff&#x27;s deputy were injured. &quot;I have repeatedly pleaded to protesters to raise their voices, not their fists. They have chosen their fists. These out-of-towners have chosen to brutalize police officers who have been protecting their free speech and protecting them against assaults by ICE agents. We will see them in court,&quot; the statement said. &quot;It&#x27;s unfortunate we came out here to pray for our neighbors who have been taken by ICE. And we came out here in a non-violent way and within seconds batons were out. Tasers were pulled out, and people were pushed down&quot; said Brandon, a protester. &quot;This is an opportunity for us to testify to the evil that is in our country where it is unnecessary to be spending money to treat people in such a manner,&quot; protester Sandra Castillo said. Border Czar Tom Homan also weighed in on the clashes. &quot;Look, they got the right to protest. Have at it. But don&#x27;t cross the line. I was watching the videos before I came out here. When they, when they put hands on a law enforcement officer, they&#x27;re getting arrested, going to jail,&quot; Homan said. Meanwhile in Chicago, residents were shoulder-to-shoulder in the East Side neighborhood, marching in the streets in a call for solidarity. &quot;It&#x27;s not a Democratic or Republican issue. It&#x27;s a non-partisan,&quot; said Frank Corona with the Steelworkers Organization of Active Retirees. &quot;This is about us, the people. We the people.&quot; Neighbors lit candles on the same corner at 105th Street and Avenue N, where exactly one month ago , Oct. 14, neighbors confronted federal immigration agents after a 30-minute pursuit around the neighborhood of alleged undocumented suspects led to a crash in the community of working families. &quot;It made people realize that, you know, we&#x27;ve seen a lot of things going on in the news, and right then it was right at their front door,&quot; said Samuel Corona with Bridges // Puentes: Justice Collective of the Southeast. Eggs and rocks were thrown at agents, who then deployed tear-gas that was exposed to residents and more than a dozen CPD officers Agents detained two teens, who were later released, officials said. Both said they were U.S. citizens. &quot;I saw a community come together,&quot; 10th Ward Ald. Peter Chico said. &quot;I am extremely proud of what I saw that day and what has happened since then. Report a correction or typo Copyright © 2026 WLS-TV. All Rights Reserved. Related Topics BROADVIEW CHICAGO IMMIGRATION ICE ARREST PROTEST DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY I TEAM Immigration West suburban teacher&#x27;s &#x27;Go ICE&#x27; post on social media draws outrage 29 minutes ago Lawyer for woman shot by feds in Chicago wants more evidence released NRA questions Trump admin. stance after deadly MN protest shooting 2nd Amendment debate: Comparisons drawn between Pretti, Rittenhouse Watch Live ON NOW Top Stories NRA questions Trump admin. stance after deadly MN protest shooting West suburban teacher&#x27;s &#x27;Go ICE&#x27; post on social media draws outrage 29 minutes ago 2nd Amendment debate: Comparisons drawn between Pretti, Rittenhouse Worker killed after Metra train hits small snowplow: police Army vet, dad killed on NW Side remembered as selfless, hardworking Parents react after suburban sub fired over child molestation claims Blizzard of &#x27;67: 59 years since Chicago&#x27;s biggest snowstorm Woman in 70s killed in shootout with home invasion suspects: TX police Topics Home Weather Traffic Watch Photos Apps Regions Chicago &amp; Suburban Cook Co. North Suburbs West Suburbs South Suburbs NW Indiana More Content Local News U.S. &amp; World I-Team Politics Entertainment Consumer &amp; Business Company About ABC7 Chicago ABC7 Newsteam Bios Community Journalism TV Listings Accessibility Employment Contests, Promotions &amp; Rules Community Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Children&#x27;s Privacy Policy Your US State Privacy Rights Terms of Use Interest-Based Ads Public Inspection File FCC Applications Copyright © 2026 ABC, Inc., WLS-TV Chicago. All Rights Reserved.