DHS sued over tear gas affecting Oregon homes near ICE facility protests | Fox News Fox News Media Fox News Media Fox Business Fox Nation Fox News Audio Fox Weather Outkick Fox Noticias Books Fox News U.S. Blue City Crime Campus Radicals Border Crisis True Crime Politics Donald Trump Senate House Judiciary Foreign Policy Fox News Polls 2025 Elections Coverage World U.N. Conflicts Terrorism Disasters Global Economy Environment Religion Scandals Opinion Media Fox Nation Coverage Entertainment Former Prince Andrew Rob Reiner Royal Families Country Music The Beckhams Sports NFL College Football MLB NASCAR INDYCAR NBA NHL Golf Tennis FIFA WORLD CUP 26 UFC WWE Lifestyle Travel Food &amp; Drink Faith Discovery Games &amp; Quizzes Health Weight Loss Cancer Brain Health Sleep Heart Health Healthy Living Mental Health MAHA Video AI More Expand / Collapse search Log In Watch TV Menu Games Expand/Collapse Menu Scattergories Daily 5 Across the Letter Word Game DownWords Sudoku Swap Words Word Search Icon Match Daily Crossword Puzzle Mini Crossword Puzzle Deals Expand/Collapse Menu Holiday Shopping Gift Guides Home Deals Kitchen Deals Tech and Electronic Deals Health and Fitness Deals Beauty and Fashion Deals FOX Business Expand/Collapse Menu Economy Personal Finance Markets Watchlist Lifestyle Real Estate Tech Science &amp; Tech Expand/Collapse Menu Air &amp; Space Security Innovation Video Games Military Tech Planet Earth Wild Nature Watch Live Expand/Collapse Menu FOX News Shows Programming Schedule On Air Personalities Full Episodes Show Clips News Clips Apps &amp; Products Expand/Collapse Menu FOX News Go FOX Weather FOX Nation FOX Noticias FOX News Shop FOX News Radio Outkick FOX News Newsletters FOX News Podcasts FOX One Games Expand/Collapse Menu Scattergories Daily 5 Across the Letter Word Game DownWords Sudoku Swap Words Word Search Icon Match Daily Crossword Puzzle Mini Crossword Puzzle Deals Expand/Collapse Menu Holiday Shopping Gift Guides Home Deals Kitchen Deals Tech and Electronic Deals Health and Fitness Deals Beauty and Fashion Deals FOX Business Expand/Collapse Menu Economy Personal Finance Markets Watchlist Lifestyle Real Estate Tech Science &amp; Tech Expand/Collapse Menu Air &amp; Space Security Innovation Video Games Military Tech Planet Earth Wild Nature Watch Live Expand/Collapse Menu FOX News Shows Programming Schedule On Air Personalities Full Episodes Show Clips News Clips Apps &amp; Products Expand/Collapse Menu FOX News Go FOX Weather FOX Nation FOX Noticias FOX News Shop FOX News Radio Outkick FOX News Newsletters FOX News Podcasts FOX One Facebook Twitter Instagram RSS Newsletters Fox News Terms of Use New Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Closed Caption Policy Help Contact Us Accessibility Statement News Sitemap Video Sitemap This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2026 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by Factset . Powered and implemented by FactSet Digital Solutions . Legal Statement . Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by LSEG . Recommended Videos Recommended Articles Left Arrow Post-Maduro, pressure builds on Mexico over Cuba’s new oil lifeline Trump's immigration crackdown in the spotlight ahead of midterms as fatal MN shootings ignite backlash Mamdani's early moves as mayor clash with affordability pledge: 'Ripple effects are significant' Trump admin wins court victory freeing ICE agents from Minnesota protest restrictions Trump has 'very good' call with Minneapolis Mayor Frey, announces border czar Homan meeting GOP senator demands DHS immigration chiefs testify after fatal shootings in Minnesota Chicago teacher placed on leave after Facebook post supporting ICE sparks outrage from activists Kathy Hochul blasted for knocking ICE as DHS offered federal help during NY blizzard Border Patrol Commander Gregory Bovino to leave Minnesota, as Tom Homan takes over Fetterman urges Minneapolis ICE op to stand down as city spirals to ‘ungovernable and dangerous’ levels Democrat who broke with party says his DHS funding vote a 'mistake' after 2nd Minneapolis ICE shooting The Hitchhiker’s Guide to why there may be a partial government shutdown Saturday Thune promises 'safe streets, more money in pockets' as GOP senators hit the road to tout tax cuts Thune steamrolls Dems' DHS revolt as Fetterman defects, Schumer under pressure Prominent holocaust museum releases scathing response after Walz compares Minnesota children to Anne Frank White House not budging on Democrats' demands as DHS funding mutiny threatens government shutdown Venezuela’s Delcy Rodríguez snaps at Washington, declares ‘enough’ of US influence DHS shares obscene, threatening voicemail sent to ICE agent, blaming local pols for 'incitement' Minnesota drags Trump's ICE to court in effort to pause immigration crackdown 88-year-old Democrat DC Delegate Eleanor Holmes Norton ends re-election campaign Right Arrow Left Arrow Democrats have continuously sided with criminal illegal aliens, political strategist says Trace Gallagher: Did Tim Walz ever read the story of Anne Frank? Investigation into CBP-involved shooting underway, career prosecutor calls for an ‘objective review of the evidence’ 'Gutfeld!': Trump pushes 'Trump-a-Palooza' Tim Walz is a liar and has exploited this situation for his ‘own political advantage’: Charlie Hurt Tom Homan to meet with Jacob Frey as Greg Bovino is expected to leave Minnesota Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent: Canada's prime minister should do what's best for the people, stop pushing 'globalist agenda' The majority of Minnesotans are not reflective of this mob, House Majority Whip says Sean Hannity: Unlike the legacy media mob, we will not rush to judgement Comparing US law enforcement to Nazis is deeply offensive, Adam Carolla says Sen John Fetterman addresses Democrats labeling federal agents as Nazis: ‘Not appropriate’ 'Really important' debate to be had about ICE's tactics: Public News founder Democratic Party divide laid bare in new book by Gov. Josh Shapiro Dems don’t want to enforce the law or secure the country: GOP lawmaker President Xi tried to act like the ‘boss,’ but instead showed China as ‘unstable’: Gordon Chang Laura: This is collateral damage to the 'open borders mafia' Situation in Minnesota ‘was not handled well at all,’ says Guy Benson Agitators swarm hotel in protest of ICE agents Senate Democrats dig in to block border security funds Coming up on Tuesday, January 27 edition of 'Special Report' Right Arrow Immigration Oregon residents sue Homeland Security after tear gas used on anti-ICE protesters Plaintiffs claims officers deployed CS gas 'repeatedly when faced with no violence from protesters or imminent risk of harm' By Charles Creitz Fox News Published January 2, 2026 12:03pm EST Facebook Twitter Threads Flipboard Comments Print Email Add Fox News on Google close Video Judge delivers setback to Trump administration, blocks National Guard deployment to Portland Fox News legal analyst Gregg Jarrett reacts after a federal judge halted the Trump administration’s plan to send National Guard troops to Portland and another ordered the reinstatement of SNAP benefits. NEW You can now listen to Fox News articles! &nbsp; An affordable housing nonprofit and group of nearby residents filed a lawsuit against the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), asking the court to "preclude" the agency from deploying tear gas and chemical or smoke-related munitions that were affecting nearby homes in Oregon.&nbsp; The suit comes amid months of clashes between DHS agents and anti-immigration-enforcement groups, including Antifa, outside an Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) facility near Interstate 5, where illegal immigrants have been detained and processed. The Gray’s Landing houses involved in the suit — which was brought by REACH Community Development and supported by the progressive groups Democracy Forward and Protect Democracy — lies kitty-corner to the ICE facility on the Willamette River. DHS SHARES 'VIDEO EVIDENCE' TO JUSTIFY BORDER PATROL'S TEAR GAS USE DURING CHAOTIC CHICAGO IMMIGRATION RAID Federal agents clash with protesters outside a downtown U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement facility in Portland, Oregon, Oct. 4, 2025. (Spencer Platt/Getty Images) In the filing, the plaintiffs called DHS’ actions "shocking" and asked the court to ban immigration enforcement agents from using chlorobenzalmalononitrile ( CS gas/"tear gas") and other crowd control tools "unless the use of such munitions is necessary to protect against an imminent and concrete threat to the lives of federal officers or other persons." The suit claims officers have deployed pepper balls, CS gas and the like "toward and around" the low-income housing complex "repeatedly when faced with no violence from protesters or imminent risk of harm." The nearby residents claimed to have suffered acute respiratory distress, ocular burning sensations and post-traumatic stress disorder episodes due to ICE’s forceful enforcement strategies . ICE ACCUSES DEM LAWMAKER OF JOINING 'RIOTING CROWD' IN ARIZONA, INTERFERING IN MASS ARREST "The government causing poisonous gas and chemicals to enter plaintiffs’ bodies violates their right to bodily integrity, which the Supreme Court has long recognized as a component of the right to liberty," the suit claimed. REACH CEO Margaret Salazar said that as a residential community, Gray’s Landing houses families, senior citizens, veterans and handicapped people who are "repeatedly exposed to chemical agents." " Children are coughing indoors , seniors are struggling to breathe, and daily life has become a source of stress and fear." TRUMP ADMIN SUES ILLINOIS GOV. PRITZKER OVER LAWS SHIELDING MIGRANTS FROM COURTHOUSE ARRESTS An anti-ICE demonstrator wearing a keffiyeh is led away by authorities in handcuffs. (TPUSA Frontlines) Democracy Forward leader Skye Perryman added that chemicals being used by the feds are also discouraging protesters from "using their voices." "Federal officers know that poison is flooding apartments where families live, where children sleep, and where seniors and veterans seek safety—and they keep using them anyway, fully aware of the severe harm they cause. There is no legal or moral justification for this use of force–it is a profound abuse of power and violates the U.S. Constitution. We are in court to stop it." Daniel Jacobson, an attorney for the plaintiffs, said in a statement the government is "poisoning" residents. BORDER PATROL CHIEF, PROGRESSIVE MAYOR CAUGHT ON CAMERA IN TENSE STREET SHOWDOWN: ‘EXCELLENT DAY IN EVANSTON’ Video President Donald Trump previously tried to deploy Oregon National Guard troops to quell springtime unrest in Portland, while Oregon sits among the top five states with the largest year-to-year increase in ICE arrests according to the Salem Reporter . More than 660 people have been arrested by the feds there in 2025.&nbsp; After Trump indicated during the summer that DHS would be asked to focus on certain problem areas of the country, Oregon Gov. Tina Kotek remarked, "I don’t take kindly to the fact that the federal administration is picking on particular cities." DHS TORCHES 'BAMBOOZLED' DEMS FOR CALLING ICE CRACKDOWN ‘VICIOUS LIES’ In November, Sen. Jeffrey Merkley, D-Ore., slammed the administration for "disturbing" raids he said are "terrorizing our communities" and allegedly detaining people "solely" based on race. "Trump is using ICE to stoke fear and uncertainty in our communities, shredding our Constitution in the process," Merkley claimed. Rep. Suzanne Bonamici, another Oregon Democrat representing Tillamook and part of Portland, led a letter to DHS Secretary Kristi Noem demanding information on the types of irritants and munitions being used against protesters. CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD THE FOX NEWS APP Video "More than a dozen advocates outside the facility have reported unprovoked attacks by Homeland Security police and FPS officers ," she claimed in the October missive, which was also signed by Merkley, Sen. Ron Wyden, and Rep. Maxine Dexter. Fox News Digital reached out to the DHS for comment. While the agency did not directly respond for comment, Secretary Kristi Noem said in a recent statement that she will seek prosecution for all who doxx ICE agents. "These criminals are taking the side of vicious cartels and human traffickers. We won't allow it in America," she said, as the agency appeared to defend its use-of-force tactics, citing the Portland facility being "under siege" for some time. "Rioters have attacked law enforcement officials, destroyed federal property, and have posted death threats at the facility. Outside of the facility, graffiti on the sidewalk reads ‘Kill Your Masters’," the agency said in a July statement. "Across the country, federal law enforcement has come under attack. Gunmen opened fire on Border Patrol and ICE officers in Texas over the Fourth of July weekend on two separate occasions, seriously wounding two," the statement added. Charles Creitz is a reporter for Fox News Digital. He joined Fox News in 2013 as a writer and production assistant. Charles covers media , politics and culture for Fox News Digital. Charles is a Pennsylvania native and graduated from Temple University with a B.A. in Broadcast Journalism. Story tips can be sent to charles.creitz@fox.com. Related Topics Immigration Illegal Immigrants Oregon Portland US protests House of Representatives Democrats More from Politics 30 mins ago Post-Maduro, pressure builds on Mexico over Cuba’s new oil lifeline 30 mins ago Trump's immigration crackdown in the spotlight ahead of midterms as fatal MN shootings ignite backlash 9 hours ago Mamdani's early moves as mayor clash with affordability pledge: 'Ripple effects are significant' 9 hours ago Trump admin wins court victory freeing ICE agents from Minnesota protest restrictions Fox News Politics Get the latest updates from the 2024 campaign trail, exclusive interviews and more Fox News politics content. Arrives Weekdays By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button, you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use , and agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News. You understand that you can opt-out at any time. Subscribe Subscribed Subscribe You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter! U.S. Blue City Crime Campus Radicals Border Crisis True Crime Politics Donald Trump Senate House Judiciary Foreign Policy Fox News Polls 2025 Elections Coverage World U.N. Conflicts Terrorism Disasters Global Economy Environment Religion Scandals Opinion Media FOX Nation Coverage Entertainment Former Prince Andrew Rob Reiner Royal Families Country Music The Beckhams Sports NFL College Football MLB NASCAR INDYCAR NBA NHL Golf Tennis FIFA WORLD CUP 26 UFC WWE Lifestyle Travel Food &amp; Drink Faith Discovery Games &amp; Quizzes Health Weight Loss Cancer Brain Health Sleep Heart Health Healthy Living Mental Health MAHA Deals Holiday Shopping Gift Guides Home Deals Kitchen Deals Tech and Electronic Deals Health and Fitness Deals Beauty and Fashion Deals FOX Business Personal Finance Economy Markets Watchlist Lifestyle Real Estate Tech Science &amp; Tech Air &amp; Space Security Innovation Video Games Military Tech Planet Earth Wild Nature Games Scattergories Daily 5 Across the Letter Word Game Downwords Sudoku Word Swap Word Search Icon Match Daily Crossword Puzzle Mini Crossword Puzzle Watch Live FOX News Shows Programming Schedule On Air Personalities Full Episodes Show Clips News Clips About Contact Us Careers Fox Around the World Advertise With Us Media Relations Corporate Information Compliance Apps &amp; Products FOX News Go FOX Weather FOX Nation FOX Noticias FOX News Shop FOX News Radio Outkick FOX News Newsletters FOX News Podcasts FOX One U.S. Blue City Crime Campus Radicals Border Crisis True Crime Politics Donald Trump Senate House Judiciary Foreign Policy Fox News Polls 2025 Elections Coverage World U.N. Conflicts Terrorism Disasters Global Economy Environment Religion Scandals Opinion Media FOX Nation Coverage Entertainment Former Prince Andrew Rob Reiner Royal Families Country Music The Beckhams Sports NFL College Football MLB NASCAR INDYCAR NBA NHL Golf Tennis FIFA WORLD CUP 26 UFC WWE Lifestyle Travel Food &amp; Drink Faith Discovery Games &amp; Quizzes Health Weight Loss Cancer Brain Health Sleep Heart Health Healthy Living Mental Health MAHA Deals Holiday Shopping Gift Guides Home Deals Kitchen Deals Tech and Electronic Deals Health and Fitness Deals Beauty and Fashion Deals FOX Business Personal Finance Economy Markets Watchlist Lifestyle Real Estate Tech Science &amp; Tech Air &amp; Space Security Innovation Video Games Military Tech Planet Earth Wild Nature Games Scattergories Daily 5 Across the Letter Word Game Downwords Sudoku Word Swap Word Search Icon Match Daily Crossword Puzzle Mini Crossword Puzzle Watch Live FOX News Shows Programming Schedule On Air Personalities Full Episodes Show Clips News Clips About Contact Us Careers Fox Around the World Advertise With Us Media Relations Corporate Information Compliance Apps &amp; Products FOX News Go FOX Weather FOX Nation FOX Noticias FOX News Shop FOX News Radio Outkick FOX News Newsletters FOX News Podcasts FOX One Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Flipboard LinkedIn Slack RSS Newsletters Spotify iHeartRadio Fox News Terms of Use New Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Closed Caption Policy Help Contact Us Accessibility Statement News Sitemap Video Sitemap This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2026 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by Factset . Powered and implemented by FactSet Digital Solutions . Legal Statement . Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by LSEG . Continue