Title: ICE leads joint operation in southern Indiana
Published: 2025-05-22 00:00:00

INDIANAPOLIS — A coordinated, multi-agency law enforcement operation conducted April 29 to May 1, resulted in the arrest of 23 aliens in the Evansville and Bloomington areas, as part of an ongoing initiative to combat criminal activity and enhance public safety. The successful three-day operation was conducted by a coalition of federal partners, including U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF), the U.S. Marshals Service (USMS), and the U.S. Attorney’s Office (USAO).

Of the 23 aliens taken into custody, 18 had prior criminal arrests or convictions, including:

10 aliens with one or more Operating While Intoxicated (OWI) offenses

10 aliens involved in crimes that resulted in injury to others

3 aliens connected to drug possession and trafficking

Additionally, four aliens were arrested on federal warrants, including one subject previously convicted of cocaine trafficking:

Martin Cortez-Lopez, 36, who was arrested as he left court in Bloomington, Indiana. Criminal History: 2007 disorderly intoxication and resisting law enforcement with violence; 2010 possession of cocaine and failure to appear for resisting officer with violence; 2024 possession of cocaine x2 and operating while intoxicated/endangerment. Previously removed 2011.

Amin Reynosa-Diaz, 29, arrested in Evansville, Indiana. Reynosa-Diaz was located at a construction site and taken into custody. Criminal History: 2020 driving while intoxicated; 2024 domestic violence. Previously removed 2019.

Jaime Ortiz-Guzman, 46, arrested in Bloomington, Indiana. Criminal History: 1999 federal arrest, fraud, imposter, false documents; 2006 battery; 2008 operating while intoxicated and operating a motor vehicle without ever receiving a license; 2024 operating while intoxicated and driving without a license. Previously removed felon.

Jonathan Regules-Hernandez, 44, arrested in Bloomington, Indiana, after a short foot pursuit. Criminal History: 2000 larceny and possession of stolen goods; 2004 maintaining a vehicle/dwelling/place with controlled substances and trafficking in cocaine; 2005 breaking and entering with the intent to commit felony and larceny after breaking and entering; 2025 operating a motor vehicle without ever receiving a license. Previously removed felon.



This operation underscores the effectiveness of interagency collaboration in addressing public safety threats. By combining investigative resources, intelligence sharing, and enforcement capabilities, federal agencies are better equipped to identify, locate, and apprehend aliens who pose risks to the community or have violated federal laws, including immigration statutes.

“ICE officers are integral in keeping communities across our country safe from those who would commit violent, criminal acts,” said ERO Chicago’s Assistant Field Office Director Douglas Thompson. “Thanks to our federal law enforcement partnerships, criminal aliens with no lawful basis to remain in the U.S. will be held accountable to the immigration laws of our nation.”

Members of the public can report crimes and suspicious activity by dialing 866-DHS-2-ICE (866-347-2423) or completing the online tip form.

Learn more about ICE’s mission to increase public safety in your community on X at @EROChicago.