Robbinsdale Schools parent detained by ICE while waiting with child at bus stop - Bring Me The News Skip to main content Home MN News Business Health MN Weather MN Lifestyle Weird Music and Radio Property TV &amp; Movies Shopping Minnesota Life Travel MN Sports MN Wild Best of MN Bars and Restaurants Home and Garden Outdoors Places to Go MN Business WI News Site Map About Us Meet the Team Advertise With Us Jobs Contests Contact Us Platform Privacy January 16, 2026 Home MN News Weather Lifestyle Sports MN Wild Best of MN Business WI News Home MN News Weather Lifestyle Sports MN Wild Best of MN Business WI News Home MN News Robbinsdale Schools parent detained by ICE while waiting with child at bus stop Students at the bus stop and students on the bus at the time may have witnessed the incident. Author: Adam Uren Updated: Jan 14, 2026 Original: Jan 14, 2026 A&#xA0;Robbinsdale Area Schools parent was detained by immigration agents while waiting with their child at the bus stop on Wednesday morning. According to the district, Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents detained the parent of a&#xA0;Northport Elementary School student at a bus stop in Crystal as they were waiting with their child.&#xA0; Students at the bus stop and students on the bus at the time of the incident may have seen what happened, per school officials. &#x201C;First and most importantly, all students, including the student involved, were able to safely board the school bus and arrive at school,&#x201D; a statement from the district reads.&#xA0; &quot;The school principal and support staff have been in contact with the family and have communicated with the families of students who were on the bus, as well as all families and staff of the impacted site.&quot; Northport Elementary School Google Maps The school, located in Brooklyn Park , is making psychologists, social workers, and other support staff available for any students or staff members who need extra support. Robbinsdale Area Schools has established protocols in place to respond to situations involving unauthorized visitors or outside agencies, including ICE and federal border patrol agents. The incident was condemned by local state Rep. Cedrick Frazier (D-New Hope), who said: &#x201C;Waiting for the school bus is a fundamental, mundane part of American parenthood. We do it every day without a second thought. But today, that reality was replaced by trauma inflicted by federal ICE agents. Targeting parents as they perform the basic duty of getting their children to school is abhorrent and un-American. &#x201C;Let me be clear: A parent was detained in front of their child and a bus full of minor children. That child is now left with the traumatizing image of their parent being detained while they are bussed to school.&#xA0; &#x201C;No child should have to sit in a classroom wondering if their parent will be there when they get home. Families are being separated; this is an affront to our values as Minnesotans and to human decency. Our children and their lives are being used as pawns for political theater. This cannot be the new normal. I reject it. &#x201C;There is no justification for this. Our children are being forced to witness such violent actions ahead of a school day that should be filled with joy and laughter.&#x201D; In response to the surge in federal immigration officers to the Twin Cities, Minneapolis Public Schools cancelled school for the entire district last Thursday and Friday, and is allowing students to learn from home for the next several weeks. A charter school in Richfield has also temporarily moved to e-learning as fears remained heightened due the prolonged presence of federal immigration agents in Minnesota.&#xA0; Tags terms: U.s. Immigration And Customs Enforcement Minnesota Minneapolis ICE Shooting ICE Shooting Minneapolis Crystal Mn ICE Raid Robbinsdale Area Schools Brooklyn Park MN By Adam Uren Adam Uren is the head of Minnesota and Western Wisconsin news coverage for Bring Me The News. Follow @bringmethenews MN Health Supplement powder linked to salmonella cases in Minnesota, 20 other states A nationwide recall is in effect for Live It Up-branded Super Greens powder. Minnesota Life Red Bull quietly cancels snowboarding competition in Minneapolis this weekend The event page does not offer a reason for the cancellation. MN News FBI offering $100K reward to find items taken from federal vehicles after ICE shooting Video showed a locked box and papers were among the items taken from vehicles following Wednesday's ICE shooting. MN News Police arrest 3 suspects in fatal Brooklyn Park shooting The shooting at the Park Haven Apartments left one man dead early Tuesday. MN News Minnesota encourages residents to report impacts of ICE surge Residents are asked not to share rumors, media reports, or secondhand information. MN News Charge: Champlin woman killed her 18-month-old daughter after losing custody Maige Elizabeth Yang, 23, faces a second-degree murder charge in the Jan. 9 death of her child. MN News More than 100 clergy members stage sit-in at Target headquarters The faith leaders from across the state are asking Target to "stand up for their workers" and community. MN News Fundraiser established for Circle Pines restaurant worker taken by ICE The worker was reportedly moved to a detention facility in Texas within 12 hours of his arrest. MN Wild Jonas Brodin to miss time for Wild, Olympic availability in danger Brodin, who seems to deal with injuries every year, is considered "week to week" for the Wild. MN Food &amp; Drink Farina Rossa pizza shop reopens following closure of Fair State's taproom The pizza shop that was partnered with the taproom reopens on Jan. 15. MN News Minnesota officials push back on Trump administration's immigration detainer claims There are currently 207 people in the Minnesota prison system who have ICE detainers. MN News Farm employees 'afraid to go to work' as ICE stretches into Greater Minnesota "Real cops don't wear masks," said Sen. Aric Putnam. MN News List of major ICE raids, updates in Minnesota on Thursday, Jan. 15 We'll try our best to keep up with major ICE operations across Minnesota. MN News List of major ICE raids in Minnesota on Tuesday, Jan. 13 We'll be updating this list of notable ICE and CBP operations in the Twin Cities and Greater Minnesota. MN News As Minneapolis reels from woman's killing, ICE operations continue across Twin Cities ICE agents continued to swoop on civilians in the hours that followed a woman's killing by one of its agents. MN News Anger erupts at Duluth, Mankato council meetings as residents express fears over ICE At city council meetings this week in both Mankato and Duluth, discussions had to be briefly paused as tensions boiled over. MN News Huge crowd at Minneapolis protest against ICE after killing of Renee Macklin Good A massive crowd congregated at Powderhorn Park, a few blocks from where Macklin Good was killed on Wednesday. MN News Gov. Walz urges Minnesotans to film ICE 'atrocities' for future prosecutions The governor said evidence of the federal government's 'atrocities' should be banked. MN News Anti-ICE protester dressed in giraffe costume is released from custody The personality known as 'Robby Roadsteamer' was arrested outside the Whipple Building on Monday. MN News 4 Native American men detained by ICE in Minneapolis, tribal leadership says Oglala Sioux Tribe President Frank Star Comes Out says the tribe has reached out to Lt. Gov. Peggy Flanagan. DONTCHA KNOW? You Can Get BMTN Special Offers! Get Our Newsletter Stay updated with the latest news and trending stories across Minnesota. Add us on Google News to stay up to date with the latest content. MN State News + MN Car Crash Reports MN Restaurants Openings MN Restaurants Closings MN Crime MN Missing Persons MN Road Construction MN Concerts and Festivals MN Wild Fire Napheesa Collier MN Travel WI Travel MN layoffs MN Breweries MN Pizza MN Hamburger MN High School Football Kirill Kaprizov MN City News Minneapolis MN News St. Paul MN News Bloomington MN News Duluth MN News Rochester MN News St. Cloud MN News Mankato MN News Eden Prairie MN News Maple Grove MN News Eagan MN News Woodbury MN News Plymouth MN News Lakeville MN News Prior Lake MN News Savage MN News Cambridge MN News Golden Valley MN News MN City News Apple Valley MN News Coon Rapids MN News Wayzata MN News Blaine MN News Brooklyn Park MN News St. Louis Park MN News Edina MN News Hopkins MN News Red Wing MN News White Bear Lake MN News Cambridge MN News Faribault MN News Brainerd MN News Winona MN News Chaska MN News Chanhassen MN News Richfield MN News MN City News Minnetonka MN News Burnsville MN News Cottage Grove MN News Shoreview MN News Andover MN News New Brighton MN News Saint Joseph MN News Farmington MN News Rosemount MN News Ramsey MN News Anoka MN News Elk River MN News Bemidji MN News Inver Grove Heights MN News Albert Lea MN News Moorhead MN News Alexandria MN News news5 Wyoming MN News Fridley MN News Oakdale MN News Lino Lakes MN News Crystal MN News Champlin MN News Saint MIchael MN News Stillwater MN News Buffalo MN News Baxter MN News West St. Paul MN News Mendota Heights MN News Otsego MN News South St. Paul MN News Willmar MN News Robbinsdale MN News &copy; 2026 Bring Me The News LLC Site Map About Us Meet the Team Advertise With Us Jobs Contests Contact Us Platform Privacy Privacy Settings CLOSE CLOSE CLOSE CLOSE