Title: Robbinsdale Schools parent detained by ICE while waiting with child at bus stop
Authors: Https, Www.Facebook.Com Bringmethenews, Adam Uren
Published: 2026-01-14 21:46:40+00:00

Students at the bus stop and students on the bus at the time may have witnessed the incident.

A Robbinsdale Area Schools parent was detained by immigration agents while waiting with their child at the bus stop on Wednesday morning.

According to the district, Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents detained the parent of a Northport Elementary School student at a bus stop in Crystal as they were waiting with their child.

Students at the bus stop and students on the bus at the time of the incident may have seen what happened, per school officials.

“First and most importantly, all students, including the student involved, were able to safely board the school bus and arrive at school,” a statement from the district reads.

"The school principal and support staff have been in contact with the family and have communicated with the families of students who were on the bus, as well as all families and staff of the impacted site."

Northport Elementary School Google Maps

The school, located in Brooklyn Park, is making psychologists, social workers, and other support staff available for any students or staff members who need extra support.

Robbinsdale Area Schools has established protocols in place to respond to situations involving unauthorized visitors or outside agencies, including ICE and federal border patrol agents.

The incident was condemned by local state Rep. Cedrick Frazier (D-New Hope), who said: “Waiting for the school bus is a fundamental, mundane part of American parenthood. We do it every day without a second thought. But today, that reality was replaced by trauma inflicted by federal ICE agents. Targeting parents as they perform the basic duty of getting their children to school is abhorrent and un-American.

“Let me be clear: A parent was detained in front of their child and a bus full of minor children. That child is now left with the traumatizing image of their parent being detained while they are bussed to school.

“No child should have to sit in a classroom wondering if their parent will be there when they get home. Families are being separated; this is an affront to our values as Minnesotans and to human decency. Our children and their lives are being used as pawns for political theater. This cannot be the new normal. I reject it.

“There is no justification for this. Our children are being forced to witness such violent actions ahead of a school day that should be filled with joy and laughter.”

In response to the surge in federal immigration officers to the Twin Cities, Minneapolis Public Schools cancelled school for the entire district last Thursday and Friday, and is allowing students to learn from home for the next several weeks.

A charter school in Richfield has also temporarily moved to e-learning as fears remained heightened due the prolonged presence of federal immigration agents in Minnesota.