Children Left Alone After Mothers Arrested in Immigration Raids - The Santa Barbara Independent Mon Jan 26, 2026 Submit an Event Newsletters Login My Account Subscribe Got a Scoop? News Arts &#038; Entertainment Living Food &amp; Drink Opinion Events Sports Obituaries Real Estate Indy Parenting Classifieds Home News Got a Scoop? Arts &amp; Entertainment Santa Barbara Live Music Venues Living Food &amp; Drink Opinion Events Sports Obituaries Real Estate Indy Parenting Cover Stories Wedding Santa Barbara Green Guide Classifieds Advertise About Us Contact Us Create Event Subscribe News Immigration Children Left Alone After Mothers Arrested in Immigration Raids "I Just Hope I Get My Mom Back," Says 15-Year-Old Juan Martinez, Who Is Now Caring for His Brothers, Ages 8 and 9 By Tyler Hayden Fri Jul 11, 2025 | 6:15am Share this: Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Add independent.com on Google Add the SB Independent as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. Juan Martinez&#039;s brothers Thursday morning, 15-year-old Juan Martinez received a frantic call from his mother. She told him Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents were right outside the Glass House Farms complex where she worked and would enter at any moment. “She was rushed,” said Martinez. “She was panicking.” Martinez didn’t know what to do. “It was really, really stressful,” he said. “I couldn’t drive over there. I couldn’t do anything. I was helpless.” The next communication from Martinez’s mother came at 11:36 a.m., close to the end of her regular 3 a.m. to 12 p.m. shift. In a hushed voice text she said she was in custody in a van and being taken to Los Angeles. She told him to take care of his brothers. “That made me cry,” Martinez said. Martinez’s mother was among more than two dozen Glass House Farms employees arrested during Thursday’s ICE raid on the cannabis company’s properties in Carpinteria and Camarillo. An undocumented migrant from Guerrero, Mexico, she had been living and working in Southern California for 16 years and has no criminal record, Martinez said. Martinez has not heard from her since. Meanwhile, he is doing his best to look after his two siblings, ages 8 and 9. “I’m actually really lost right now,” he said. “I don’t know what to tell them because I don’t want them to freak out. Because they’re little, they’re little kids.” Martinez said their home has enough food to last them the next few days and he is in touch with family members in Northern California to decide what to do next. “I’m trying to figure all that out,” he said. He has also been speaking with a Santa Barbara attorney who is trying to stop his mother’s deportation. Juan Martinez&#8217;s mother with his two younger siblings That attorney, Andrea Anaya with Kingston, Martinez, &amp; Hogan , said while her law firm frequently works with victims of human trafficking and domestic violence, she’s “never received a call of a mother being abducted while working.” “This is not normal,” she said. In previous administrations, Anaya said, ICE agents would use discretion when determining who to arrest during their enforcement operations. Parents or guardians of young children would often not be detained and instead receive a summons to appear in court. Now, Anaya said, anyone and everyone is being captured in the dragnets. Anaya has filed a motion for a bond hearing in the hope Martinez’s mother will be released from custody while she waits her turn to see an immigration judge, a process that could take weeks or months. In the meantime Martinez is anxious to know how his mom is doing and at which federal detention facility she&#8217;s being held. &#8220;I just want to know where she is and if she&#8217;s okay,&#8221; he said. Alexa’s mother is also a Glass House employee and undocumented resident who was similarly swept up in Thursday’s raid. That left Alexa, 16, to care for her 6-year-old and 10-month-old sisters by herself.&nbsp;&#8220;They became my responsibility,&#8221; she said. Alexa’s mother is three months pregnant and at some point during her arrest a chemical substance was spilled on her leg, Alexa said. She told ICE agents she didn’t feel well and was worried about her baby. That prompted the agents to call paramedics, who transported her to a nearby hospital.&nbsp; Alexa’s mother has since been released from custody but not before federal officials took her photo and copied her ID. “We’re all worried they’re going to come back for her,” Alexa said. “It’s crazy that they&#8217;re sending the military to arrest people who just want to work.&#8221; Now living in Ojai, Alexa’s mother immigrated from Chihuahua, Mexico, 17 years ago at the height of cartel violence in the region. She’s made a living as a housekeeper and in agriculture, has a clean record, and always pays her taxes, Alexa said. “She wanted a better life,” Alexa explained. “Everyone comes here looking for a better life, looking for the American dream.” Most Read Recent News Former UCSB Student Convicted of Rape, Flees Santa Barbara Courthouse By Tyler Hayden | Tue Jan 20, 2026 Santa Barbara Mother Identified as Pedestrian Found Injured Near Las Positas Road By Ella Heydenfeldt | Wed Jan 21, 2026 Saying Goodbye to San Marcos Growers By Matt Kettmann | Wed Jan 21, 2026 Overtime Audit Roils Santa Barbara County Sheriff’s Office By Nick Welsh | Tue Jan 20, 2026 Santa Barbara Police Seek Witnesses After Pedestrian Found Injured on Las Positas Road By Ella Heydenfeldt | Tue Jan 20, 2026 USA vs Chile Brings International Flair to Harder Stadium By Victor Bryant | Mon Jan 26, 2026 Lucky By Holly Meade-Kennedy, Kildare, Ireland | Mon Jan 26, 2026 Tedeschi Trucks Band Take to the Santa Barbara Bowl This Summer By Tiana Molony | Mon Jan 26, 2026 Los Angeles Man Arrested for Alleged Sexual Abuse of Vulnerable Adults at Goleta Care Home By Ella Heydenfeldt | Mon Jan 26, 2026 Fight over Naples Housing Project Returns to Santa Barbara County Planning Commission on Wednesday By Callie Fausey | Mon Jan 26, 2026 Tue Jan 27, 2026 | 05:54am https://www.independent.com/2025/07/11/children-left-alone-after-mothers-arrested-in-immigration-raids/ &times; Login Please note this login is to submit events or press releases. Use this page here to login for your Independent subscription Username or Email Address Password Remember Me Not a member? Sign up here. News Arts &#038; Entertainment Living Food &#038; Drink Opinion Promote Event Sports Events Real Estate Indy Parenting Cover Story About Us Contact Us Submit Press Release Obituaries Classifieds Advertise Promote Events Create Event Create Obituary Submit Letter Admin Login FOLLOW US ON NEWSLETTER SIGN UP Get the Independent in your inbox. Privacy Policy Copyright ©2026 Santa Barbara Independent, Inc. Reproduction of material from any Independent.com pages without written permission is strictly prohibited. If you believe an Independent.com user or any material appearing on Independent.com is copyrighted material used without proper permission, please click here . Site by Trew Knowledge. Powered by WordPress VIP . Sign&nbsp;in &nbsp; Loading Comments... &nbsp; You must be logged in to post a comment.