Title: ICE reports second death from Dallas sniper attack after detainee succumbs to injuries
Published: 2025-10-02 00:00:00

DALLAS — Miguel Angel Garcia-Hernandez, a 31-year-old illegal alien from Mexico, died on Sept. 29 at 11:48 p.m. Central Standard Time after succumbing to injuries sustained when a sniper opened fire, Sept. 24, on ICE’s Dallas facility targeting federal law enforcement officers.

At the time, Garcia was immediately transported by emergency medical personnel to the Parkland Health Hospital. Our thoughts are with his family, and this tragedy underscores the terrible cost of dangerous rhetoric and violence against the men and women of ICE who are simply carrying out their sworn law enforcement mission.

Having illegally entered the United States on an unknown date and at an unknown location, Garcia’s criminal history dates back to January 2011 when the Arlington City Police Department in Arlington, Texas, arrested and charged him for failure to identify/giving fictitious information and evading arrest.

On May 4, 2011, the County Criminal Court Number 7 in Fort Worth, Texas, convicted Garcia of failure to identify/giving fictitious information and dismissed the charge of evading arrest. The County Criminal Court sentenced him to one day confinement and paid court costs.

On Oct. 20, 2017, the ACPD arrested and charged Garcia for failure to identify/giving fictitious information. The following day ICE Enforcement and Removal Operations Dallas encountered him at the Arlington City Jail subsequent to his arrest for failure to identify/giving fictitious information, and lodged an immigration detainer against his release. Arlington City Jail released Garcia before ICE was able to take him into custody.

On Oct. 27, 2017, the County Criminal Court Number 10 in Fort Worth convicted Garcia of failure to identify/giving fictitious information and sentenced him to five days confinement and a paid court costs.

On Aug. 8, the ACPD arrested and charged Garcia for driving while intoxicated, evading arrest with vehicle and fleeing police. On that same date, ICE ERO Dallas encountered him at the Arlington City Jail subsequent to his arrest and lodged an immigration detainer against his release.

In the early morning of Sept. 24, ICE ERO Dallas took Garcia into custody and at about 6:24 a.m., ICE ERO Dallas reported an active shooter at the ERO Dallas Field Office where Garcia was shot and subsequently transported to a nearby hospital where he succumbed to his injuries early this morning.

Consistent with ICE policy, ICE ERO notified the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the Office of Inspector General and the ICE Office of Professional Responsibility via the Integrity Coordination Center. ICE ERO telephonically notified the Consulate of Mexico of Garcia’s death.

ICE makes official notifications to Congress, nongovernmental organization stakeholders and the media upon an official report of a detained illegal alien’s death and posts a news release with relevant details on the ICE public website within two business days per agency policy. This information may be accessed in the ICE.gov Newsroom. Additionally, congressional requirements described in the DHS Appropriations Bill of 2018 require ICE to make public all reports regarding an in-custody death within 90 days.

These reports may be accessed on the Detainee Death Reporting page.