ICE detainee passes away at Georgia’s Robert A. Deyton Detention Center | ICE Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( Lock Locked padlock ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. --> En Español Contact Us Quick Links INFO Due to the lapse in federal funding, this website will not be actively managed. More info --> Watch Live at 11:30 a.m. ET: Results of Nationwide Law Enforcement Effort Press Conference ICE Check-in for Aliens Get information about how to check in with your local ICE Office here . Reportándose con ICE: Obtenga información sobre cómo reportarse a su oficina local de ICE aquí . View in other languages Menu Call 1-866-DHS-2-ICE to report suspicious activity Report Crime Main Navigation " class="we-megamenu-nolink" title="Click here to open the About Us menu"> About Us Mission Who We Are Leadership History Information Library Career Opportunities ICE Fallen Officers Fact Sheets Learn facts about U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Learn More About ICE " class="we-megamenu-nolink" title="Click here to open the Enforcement and Removal Operations menu"> Enforcement and Removal Operations Identify and Arrest Criminal Alien Program Fugitive Operations Law Enforcement Partnerships 287g Program Immigration Fraud Prosecutions Detain Immigration Detainers Detention Facilities Health Service Corps Detention Management Facility Inspections Family Residential Standards Remove Removal Recalcitrant Countries Self-Deportation Immigration Enforcement Frequently Asked Questions ERO Statistics Dashboard How ICE Enforces Immigration Laws ICE identifies and apprehends removable aliens, detains these individuals and removes illegal aliens from the United States. Learn more about ERO ICE Check-in Learn more about how to check in with a local ICE office Get information about how to check in with your local ICE Office here . ERO e File A uniform platform for the filing of electronic G-28s with ERO and the scheduling of legal visits through ERO eFile’s Detention Facility Appointment Scheduler (DFAS). Learn more about ERO eFile " class="we-megamenu-nolink" title="Click here to open the Homeland Security Investigations menu"> Homeland Security Investigations Operational Priorities Protecting National Security Preventing Crimes of Exploitation Operation Identify Ensuring Public Safety Upholding the Law in Global Trade Investigating Cybercrime Combating Financial Crime Investigations Outreach Programs Partnerships Centers &amp; Labs Recognize &amp; Report Crime Securing the Homeland Combating cross-border criminal activity is a critical component of the overall safety, security and well-being of our nation. Learn more about HSI News about HSI Student and Exchange Visitor Program SEVP is a part of the National Security Investigations Division and acts as a bridge for government organizations that have an interest in information on nonimmigrants whose primary reason for coming to the United States is to be students. Learn more about SEVP " class="we-megamenu-nolink" title="Click here to open the Newsroom menu"> Newsroom News Releases and Statements Latest High-Profile Arrests Feature Stories Multimedia Social Media Speeches and Testimonies ERO Statistics Dashboard ICE's ERO officers uphold United States immigration laws by focusing on individuals who present the greatest risk to national security, public safety or border security. View the most recent statistics 2024 Year in Review ICE’s FY 2024 Annual Report View the annual report Media Inquiries Breadcrumb ICE Newsroom ICE detainee passes away at Georgia’s Robert A. Deyton Detention Center Share Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Email this Page Print this Page January 16, 2026 Lovejoy , GA , United States Detainee Death Notifications ICE detainee passes away at Georgia’s Robert A. Deyton Detention Center LOVEJOY, Ga. — On Jan. 14, 2025, Heber Sanchaz Domínguez, a 34-year-old Mexican national, passed away while in U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement custody at the Robert A. Deyton Detention Center. He was pronounced deceased at 3:09 a.m. EDT after being found unresponsive. The cause of death is currently under investigation. Sanchaz had been in ICE custody for six days and was awaiting a hearing before the Department of Justice’s Executive Office for Immigration Review . RAD medical staff discovered Sanchaz hanging by the neck and unresponsive in his sleeping quarters at approximately 2:05 a.m. RAD medical staff immediately attempted lifesaving measures and transferred Sanchaz to the Piedmont Henry Medical Center via Emergency Medical Services for further evaluation and treatment. At approximately 3:09 a.m. EDT, Piedmont Henry Medical Center staff pronounced him deceased. Sanchaz was initially encountered by ICE on January 7, following his arrest by the Richmond County Jail in Georgia for driving without a license. ICE lodged an immigration detainer with the Richmond County Sheriff’s Office. On January 9, ICE filed a Notice to Appear with the Executive Office for Immigration Review, scheduling Sanchaz to appear before an immigration judge. Sanchaz originally entered the United States at or near Nogales, Arizona, on Dec. 22, 2023, without admission or parole by an immigration officer. U.S. Border Patrol agents arrested him the same day and issued a Notice to Appear, charging him with inadmissibility under federal immigration law. He was subsequently released on his own recognizance. Following his January 7 arrest, ICE transferred Sanchaz to the Robert A. Deyton Detention Center pending removal proceedings. Medical staff completed the intake process and reported no signs of distress at that time. Consistent with ICE policy, the Department of Homeland Security Office of Inspector General and the ICE Office of Professional Responsibility were notified through the Joint Intake Center. ICE also notified the Mexican Consulate in Atlanta, which in turn informed Mr. Sanchaz’s next of kin. ICE makes official notifications to Congress, nongovernmental organization stakeholders, and the media upon reports of in-custody deaths and posts news releases with relevant details on ICE’s public website. You may access this information in ICE.gov’s Newsroom. Congressional requirements described in the DHS Appropriations Act of 2018 require ICE to publicize all reports regarding in-custody deaths within 90 days. You may access these reports on ICE.gov’s Detainee Death Reporting page. ICE is committed to ensuring that all individuals in custody reside in safe, secure, and humane environments. Comprehensive medical care is provided from the moment individuals arrive and throughout their stay. All individuals in ICE custody receive medical, dental, and mental health intake screenings within 12 hours of arrival at each detention facility; a full health assessment within 14 days; access to medical appointments; and 24-hour emergency care. At no time during detention is a detained individual denied emergency care. Updated: 01/20/2026 Return to top Media Inquiries For media inquiries about ICE activities, operations or policies, contact ICE's Office of Public Affairs at ICEMedia@ice.dhs.gov . About Us Enforcement and Removal Operations Homeland Security Investigations Newsroom ICE Contact Center Report suspicious activity: 1-866-DHS-2-ICE ICE.gov An official website of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security ICE USWDS Footer Links About ICE Accessibility FOIA Requests Privacy Policy DHS.gov Archive No FEAR Act Data Site Links Performance Reports Inspector General The White House DHS Components USA.gov Mobile Menu Bar Menu Search En Español Contact Main Navigation on Mobile Devices About Us Mission Who We Are Leadership History Information Library Career Opportunities ICE Fallen Officers Enforcement and Removal Operations Identify and Arrest Criminal Alien Program Fugitive Operations Law Enforcement Partnerships 287g Program Immigration Fraud Prosecutions Detain Immigration Detainers Detention Facilities Health Service Corps Detention Management Facility Inspections Family Residential Standards Remove Recalcitrant Countries Removal Self-Deportation Immigration Enforcement Frequently Asked Questions ERO Statistics Dashboard Homeland Security Investigations Operational Priorities Protecting National Security Preventing Crimes of Exploitation Operation Identify Ensuring Public Safety Upholding the Law in Global Trade Investigating Cybercrime Combating Financial Crime Investigations Outreach Programs Partnerships Centers &amp; Labs Recognize &amp; Report Crime Newsroom News Releases and Statements Latest High-Profile Arrests Feature Stories Multimedia Social Media Speeches and Testimonies Search Search Home Who We Are Newsroom Information Library Contact ICE Careers En Español