NYPD Arrest More Than a Dozen Protesting Homeland Security Agents in Tense Confrontation | THE CITY — NYC News Discover new ways of seeing THE CITY. Get THE CITY SCOOP, our free morning newsletter. Sign up Close Donate Search for: Search Facebook Page Twitter Instagram Search GO Newsletters newsletters Get THE CITY sent right to your inbox. Podcast FAQ NYC The New Yorkest podcast. Twice weekly. Featured IMPACT Our journalism makes a positive impact on the lives of New Yorkers. How to New York Your questions answered about the greatest city in the world. What We're REPORTING CITY HALL Climate Criminal Justice Economy HOUSING IMMIGRATION Labor NYPD Transit Follow Us Twitter Bluesky Facebook Instagram RSS Feed About Us Ways to Give merch store About Us Contact US Team Awards REPUBLISH Close Search GO Newsletters newsletters Get THE CITY sent right to your inbox. Podcast FAQ NYC The New Yorkest podcast. Twice weekly. Featured IMPACT Our journalism makes a positive impact on the lives of New Yorkers. How to New York Your questions answered about the greatest city in the world. What We're REPORTING CITY HALL Climate Criminal Justice Economy HOUSING IMMIGRATION Labor NYPD Transit Follow Us Twitter Bluesky Facebook Instagram RSS Feed About Us Ways to Give merch store About Us Contact US Team Awards REPUBLISH Skip to content Menu THE CITY - NYC News Reporting to New Yorkers Donate Open Search Search for: Search Donate Menu Get THE CITY's headlines in your inbox every morning. GO Posted in Manhattan NYPD Arrest More Than a Dozen Protesting Homeland Security Agents in Tense Confrontation Dozens of masked federal agents were gathered inside a parking lot when a group of protesters got word of their presence. The NYPD helped clear a path for the agents to leave the area. by Gwynne Hogan , Alex Krales and Katie Honan Nov. 29, 2025, 3:27 p.m. Nov. 30, 2025, 4:20 p.m. Republish Republish this story Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky More Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email NYPD officers confronted protesters outside a General Services Administration garage near Canal Street ahead of an expected immigration raid, Nov. 29, 2025. Credit: Alex Krales/THE CITY Support local news today! Our nonprofit newsroom relies on readers like you to power investigations like these. Join the community that powers NYC&#8217;s independent local news. Make THE CITY Your Go-To For Local News Follow us on Google News ⭐️ The NYPD arrested more than a dozen people and unleashed clouds of pepper spray on a spontaneous protest formed around a SoHo parking garage where masked agents with the U.S. Department of Homeland Security had gathered inside.&nbsp; It’s unclear exactly what the federal agents had planned for Saturday. Around 11 a.m the agents began staging inside the federally owned parking facility at Howard and Center Streets, near the spot on Canal Street where federal agents using military gear had carried out a wave of arrests of immigrant street vendors last month. Hellgate reported ICE had planned another large-scale immigration raid for Saturday afternoon that got hastily called off as protesters and vendors appeared to have heard of it. Word quickly spread among activists and a growing crowd formed outside the garage chanting “ICE out of New York,” as some demonstrators attempted to block the street and garage exits with traffic cones and overturned trash cans while masked agents looked on from above.&nbsp; Federal agents observe the crowd below the lower Manhattan parking structure. Credit: Alex Krales/THE CITY NYPD officers arrived on the scene and helped the agents shove protesters out of the way, erecting metal barricades around the parking garage and arresting several demonstrators. After a standoff that lasted roughly two hours, the officers managed to clear the way for around two dozen federal vehicles to exit the parking garage and leave the area.&nbsp; “It’s really despicable, it seems like the NYPD — especially the [Strategic Response Group, the NYPD’s counter-terrorism unit] — is working to clear the way for ICE agents to go out in our city to do arrests,” said local City Councilmember Christopher Marte, who rushed to the street after hearing about the standoff. Latest Headlines How NYC Schools Handled a Remote Snow Day January 26, 2026 Jan. 26, 2026, 5:59 p.m. Climbing Bus Stop Mountain: Snowfall Makes a Mess of Wheeled Commutes January 26, 2026 Jan. 26, 2026, 5:50 p.m. City Investigating Seven Outdoor Deaths as Cold Snap Sets In January 26, 2026 Jan. 26, 2026, 10:16 p.m. NYC Schools to Go Remote Monday as Snow Blankets City January 25, 2026 Jan. 25, 2026, 3:01 p.m. A statement provided by the NYPD said officers arrived shortly before noon after getting a 911 call for a “disorderly group.” Federal agents clash with dozens of protesters outside a General Services Administration garage near Canal Street ahead of an expected immigration raid, Nov. 29, 2025. Credit: Alex Krales/THE CITY “Upon arrival, officers observed multiple individuals who were blocking the street and exits at different locations. The individuals were also observed throwing debris,” the statement said. “They were instructed multiple times to disperse, and they did not comply. As a result, multiple individuals were taken into custody.” In an emailed statement, DHS declined to say what agents had planned for Saturday and thanked the NYPD for intervening. “We are grateful for the NYPD officers that responded to these violent agitators and stopped the lawlessness that ensued,” the statement said. &#8220;We will never apologize for enforcing the law and removing criminal illegal aliens including murderers, pedophiles, rapists, gang members and terrorists from our communities. We won’t let violent rioters slow us down, and anyone who assaults law enforcement will be prosecuted them [sic] to the fullest extent of the law.” A spokesperson for Mayor Eric Adams didn’t respond to a request for comment from THE CITY.&nbsp; Monica Klein, a spokesperson for Zohran Mamdani, said in a statement that “the Mayor-elect has made it clear — including to the President — that these raids are cruel and inhumane and fail to advance genuine public safety.” “The Mayor-elect remains steadfast in his commitment to protecting the rights and dignity of every single New Yorker, upholding our sanctuary laws and deescalation rather than use of unnecessary force,” she said. We cover NYC on historic days and every day. Sign up for free morning headlines in your inbox. Sign up As the stream of federal vans and cars attempted to leave the area, smaller groups of protesters left a path of overturned trash cans and debris along Canal Street attempting to slow them down. Dozens of NYPD officers pursued the protesters, unleashing clouds of pepper spray and making several more arrests along Canal Street. “You understand this is not your battle,” said Kaleed Ravis, 52, pleading with NYPD officers to be gentle with one protester who had his arm twisted behind his back. Ravis, a New Jersey resident, was out shopping when he heard the commotion and joined the protesters. The throngs of federal agents, NYPD officers and protesters cause chaos along Canal Street for several hours on “Small Business Saturday,” a huge day for tourists and holiday shoppers. “We&#8217;re really nosy, it&#8217;s the Scottish in us,” said one Scottish tourist who had stopped to observe, declining to give her name. NYPD officers arrested about a dozen protesters who were blocking federal immigration agents from leaving a garage near Canal Street, Nov. 29, 2025. Credit: Alex Krales/THE CITY Nineteen-year-old Ali Boussi had come to Canal Street to “get some fake Gucci” while visiting his dad from Detroit, though he hadn’t been able to find any for sale that day, as street vendors — who had been out selling on Canal on Friday — had seemed to have cleared out for the day. “Fuck ICE, why are they doing this? We’re all one kind,” he said. “It hurts me inside. We&#8217;re all people.” Dozens of federal agents descended on Canal Street in October targeting street vendors, arresting nine West African immigrants, the largest military-style immigration raids in New York City. Since then, ICE agents have randomly detained undocumented New Yorkers on the street, targeting predominantly Hispanic neighborhoods which activists and lawyers have called profiling. There have been other violent raids, including one earlier this month , when agents burst into a woman’s apartment in East Elmhurst before dawn looking for a relative that no longer lived there.&nbsp; The agents pointed a gun at a 33-year-old mother and her four children, dragging her by her hair and pointing an assault rifle at her 13-year-old daughter.&nbsp; “Put your fucking hands up, stupid,” one agent was heard yelling in a brief video of the raid. Earlier this month border czar Tom Homan vowed to increase immigration raids and has said he plans to visit New York City in the coming weeks.&nbsp; Related Gwynne Hogan Senior Reporter ghogan@thecity.nyc Gwynne Hogan is a senior reporter covering immigration, homelessness, and many things in between. Her coverage of the migrant crisis earned her the Newswomen’s Club of New York’s Journalist of the... More by Gwynne Hogan Katie Honan Senior Reporter khonan@thecity.nyc Katie is a reporter for THE CITY and co-host of FAQ NYC podcast. More by Katie Honan What Happens Next January 1st didn’t just launch a new year, but a new administration — and new energy — in New York City. Even as Mayor Mamdani settles into City Hall, things are already starting to shift. The decisions that shape the next four years start happening fast, and it's critical that you have someone who can help you understand them. I cover City Hall — I was there when the mayor was sworn in and I’ll be there every day tracking what happens now: when campaign promises meet reality and when early choices have lasting consequences for New Yorkers. That’s where THE CITY comes in. We’ll be tracking which policies get prioritized, who is put in place to advance them, and how this new administration uses its power — not just in big moments, but day after day. You counted on us during the election. You can count on us now, as this administration begins. And you can help us ensure we’re there, day after day, with your support. I hope you’ll make a gift today. Katie Honan City Hall Reporter DONATE NOW THE CITY is an independent nonprofit newsroom dedicated to serving the people of New York. Questions? info@thecity.nyc THE CITY is published by City Report, Inc. Follow Us Twitter Bluesky Facebook Instagram RSS Feed ABOUT TEAM FUNDERS ETHICS DIVERSITY DONATE CONTACT REPUBLISH CAREERS Subscribe to THE CITY SCOOP Sign up and get everything you need to know to be an active New Yorker delivered to your inbox each morning. See more. GO This site is protected by reCAPTCHA . &copy; 2026 The City Report, Inc. All Rights Reserved Powered by Newspack Facebook Page Twitter Instagram Gift this article Close Link Copy link