NYC Comptroller Brad Lander arrested by federal agents at immigration court - Gothamist Gothamist A non-profit newsroom, powered by WNYC. Gothamist Listen Live Donate News NYC Comptroller Brad Lander arrested by federal agents at immigration court By Brittany Kriegstein , Brigid Bergin , Charles Lane and Paige Oamek Published Jun 17, 2025 Modified Jun 17, 2025 Share Facebook Twitter Reddit Email Never miss a story Email address By submitting your information, you&#39;re agreeing to receive communications from New York Public Radio in accordance with our Terms . Chloe Chik/NYC comptroller&#39;s office By Brittany Kriegstein , Brigid Bergin , Charles Lane and Paige Oamek Published Jun 17, 2025 Modified Jun 17, 2025 Share Facebook Twitter Reddit Email We rely on your support to make local news available to all Make your contribution now and help Gothamist thrive in 2026. Donate today Gothamist is funded by sponsors and member donations Mayoral candidate and city Comptroller Brad Lander was arrested Tuesday by federal agents at an immigration courthouse in Lower Manhattan, according to Homeland Security officials and staff for his mayoral campaign and office. Video posted to social media shows Lander being led away in handcuffs into an elevator by two men who appear to be masked law enforcement officials, which is consistent with the recent practices of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or ICE. “You have no authority to arrest U.S. citizens,” Lander can be heard asking in the video. “Where are you taking me and with what authority?” Lander campaign spokesperson Dora Pekec told Gothamist the comptroller was arrested while escorting a defendant out of immigration court at 26 Federal Plaza. He was released from federal custody around 4:30 p.m. A comptroller spokesperson said no charges have been filed and the case is under review by the U.S. Attorney’s Office. Another video of the incident, which was provided by Chloe Chik, a spokesperson for the comptroller’s office, shows Lander being handcuffed against a wall and led into the elevator. “I’m not obstructing, I’m standing right here in the hallway,” he says in the video. “I asked to see the judicial warrant. You don’t have the authority to arrest U.S. citizens asking for a judicial warrant.” Speaking to supporters after his release, Lander said he had been trying to help a migrant in the courthouse. “I will be fine, but Edgardo is not going to be fine,” he said. “And the rule of law is not fine and our constitutional democracy is not fine.” It was unclear Tuesday evening where the man was being held or whether he remained in federal custody. City Comptroller Brad Lander addresses the crowd after being released from custody on Tuesday, June 17, 2025. Paige Oamek/Gothamist According to his public schedule, the comptroller had planned to observe immigration court proceedings Tuesday. He was expected to highlight “the need for more legal funding and resources to protect immigrants from U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s unlawful detainments,” his office said. Tricia McLaughlin, assistant secretary at the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, said in a statement that Lander “was arrested for assaulting law enforcement and impeding a federal court officer.” She did not provide further details. Lander is a Democratic mayoral candidate in the June primary election. Early voting is currently underway and Primary Day in the ranked-choice election is next Tuesday. Lander has been polling in the middle of the crowded field, but last week he fiercely criticized the record of former Gov. Andrew Cuomo, the frontrunner, during a mayoral debate, and cross-endorsed state Assemblymember Zohran Mamdani of Queens, who has been polling second in the race. The comptroller also received the backing of a panel of experts convened by the New York Times who weighed in on the contest. Crowds gather in Lower Manhattan after city Comptroller Brad Lander was arrested on Tuesday, June 17, 2025. Paige Oamek/Gothamist “Today should not be about Brad Lander,” Kayla Mamelak Altus, a spokesperson for Mayor Eric Adams, said in a statement. “It’s about making sure all New Yorkers — regardless of their documentation status — feel safe enough to use public resources.” As news of Lander’s arrest spread, hundreds of supporters holding signs gathered in Foley Square. Some elected officials called for him to be released immediately. “It's bulls---,” Gov. Kathy Hochul said at an unrelated press conference. “Brad Lander has stepped up to be a guiding help to [migrants], and this is what happens to him? What the hell is happening to this country?” Several other elected officials took to Lower Manhattan to push back. “We need every candidate, every elected official, to say this is absolutely wrong and should not be happening in New York City,” City Councilmember Alexa Avilés of Brooklyn said. In a statement, New York Attorney General Letitia James called Lander's detention "profoundly unacceptable" and a "grotesque escalation of tensions" from the Trump administration. The incident comes just weeks after U.S. Department of Homeland Security officials arrested Newark Mayor Ras Baraka on a trespassing charge after he entered, then left, a privately run immigration detention facility in Newark along with members of Congress who had arrived for a tour. A federal judge later dismissed those charges . Federal officials have also indicted U.S. Rep. LaMonica McIver , accusing her of “forcibly impeding and interfering with federal law enforcement officers” during the May 9 incident. She said she would plead not guilty. Tagged Politics Race And Justice Unit brad lander elections new york city public safety Brittany Kriegstein Twitter Brittany Kriegstein covers all breaking news around New York City, with a focus on crime and gun violence. Got a tip? Email Brittany at [email&#160;protected] . Read more Brigid Bergin Twitter Brigid Bergin is an award-winning senior reporter on the People and Power desk. She is fiercely committed to telling stories that help people engage and support democracy. In 2022, she hosted a live, ten-week call-in politics show ahead of the midterm elections called The People&#39;s Guide to Power. Brigid&#39;s reporting in 2017 included some of the first coverage of a political newcomer now known as AOC. In 2016, she broke the news of a voter purge in Brooklyn just days before New York’s presidential primary, triggering city, state and federal investigations. Brigid also guest hosts The Brian Lehrer Show and All Of It. She graduated from the University at Albany and the CUNY Newmark School of Journalism. Got a tip? Email [email&#160;protected] or Signal 917-723-4719. Read more Charles Lane Twitter Charles is a Day-of reporter focused on breaking news and enterprise. He’s very friendly and can be reached at [email&#160;protected] , or more securely on whatsapp/signal 631-295-6715 Read more Paige Oamek Paige Oamek is a reporter on Gothamist &amp; WNYC&#39;s day-of general assignment desk. Read more Gothamist is funded by sponsors and member donations Gothamist is funded by sponsors and member donations MORE news Temperatures inside Wards Island homeless shelter fell to 45 degrees, inspectors say City regulations say temperatures indoors should be at least 68 degrees Fahrenheit. By Karen Yi Published Jan 16, 2026 Large NYC landlord accused of neglecting buildings agrees to $2 million settlement The settlement covers about 750 tenants living in A&amp;E buildings in Queens, Brooklyn and Manhattan. By Walter Wuthmann News Large NYC landlord accused of neglecting buildings agrees to $2 million settlement The settlement covers about 750 tenants living in A&amp;E buildings in Queens, Brooklyn and Manhattan. By Walter Wuthmann Judge approves controversial sale of NYC rent-stabilized apartments over Mamdani's objections By David Brand Extra Extra: We're getting a new bowl place, New Yorkers By James Ramsay Driver in Lower East Side July 4 crash that killed 4 is sentenced to 24 years to life By Brittany Kriegstein Never miss a story Catch up on the most important headlines with a roundup of essential NYC stories, delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up Email address By submitting your information, you&#39;re agreeing to receive communications from New York Public Radio in accordance with our Terms . Advertising Contact Us Our Team RSS Feed Diversity (DEI) Careers Gothamist Gothamist is a website about New York City news, arts, events and food, brought to you by New York Public Radio. Advertising Contact Us Our Team RSS Feed Diversity (DEI) Careers Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Terms Of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility ©2025 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved.