Title: Seattle police arrest 8, deploy crowd control tactics during anti-ICE protest
Published: 2025-06-11 21:17:30

What began as a peaceful march in Cal Anderson Park devolved into chaos when protesters threw fireworks at Seattle police.

Example video title will go here for this video

Example video title will go here for this video

To stream KING 5 on your phone, you need the KING 5 app.

SEATTLE — Fireworks exploded on the street during a crowded standoff between Seattle police and demonstrators Wednesday night, sending a massive group of people running in fear.

Seattle police deployed crowd control tactics, which appeared to be flashbangs, and arrested at least eight people during the anti-ICE demonstration that went on for hours. The demonstration began at around 7 p.m. at Cal Anderson Park but later migrated downtown, blocking traffic at 6th Avenue and Seneca Street before continuing south on 3rd Avenue, according to the Seattle Department of Transportation. Officials advised drivers to avoid the area..

Seattle police reported that the protest was peaceful until around 10 p.m., when some individuals set fire to a dumpster near 3rd Avenue and Marion Street. The fire was extinguished by the Seattle Fire Department.

Police issued a dispersal order around 10:20 p.m., directing the crowd near the Henry M. Jackson Federal Building to move south and west, the Seattle Police Department said. Officers enforcing the order were targeted with thrown cement and rocks. Police moved demonstrators away from the federal building around 11 p.m.

Protestors left graffiti on the federal building.

"When I pulled up today, I was pretty shocked by all of the graffiti," said Steve McElhenney as he was passing by the building on Thursday. "Peaceful protestors are great, when you do this that is crossing the line, you are not getting your point across to anyone. That is just pure vandalism."

"Folks have the right to protest but when things turn violent or folks are violent with the law there are going to be consequences," Governor Bob Ferguson said.

Seattle Mayor Bruce Harrell issued a statement Thursday condemning the violence and property destruction.

The protest comes amid national unrest over immigration enforcement, with Los Angeles as a focal point. By Wednesday evening, about 500 National Guard troops had been deployed to assist U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents during operations, according to federal officials.

Organizer of Wednesday’s Cal Anderson rally, Taylor Young, said, “We stand with you one hundred percent,” referring to the protestors in LA. “Your fight in the streets has inspired this amount of people to come out and stand with you to take part in this rebellion."

Earlier in the day, Seattle Mayor Bruce Harrell said the city would not cooperate with federal immigration raids, following reports that ICE may send tactical units to Seattle.

Harrell said the city had not received official notice of a deployment but emphasized that Seattle would continue to follow state law, which limits cooperation with ICE.

“We want to protect our people here. We want to protect those most vulnerable,” Harrell said. “We only arrest people who are breaking the law. We want to see protests.”

ICE has not confirmed whether any tactical units have arrived in the city.

“We are prepared to protect people,” Harrell said. “We know our policies here. We are a welcoming city. We do not cooperate with ICE under our state law.”

The downtown immigration court was closed to the public on Wednesday, open only by appointment, following earlier demonstrations. Several protesters were observed outside the building throughout the day.