ICE Laredo, federal partners arrest 31 illegal aliens during a 1-day targeted worksite enforcement operation | ICE
Skip to main content
Official websites use .gov
A
.gov
website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A
lock
(
Lock
Locked padlock
) or
https://
means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
En Español
Contact Us
Quick Links
Share
Share on Facebook
Share on X
Share on LinkedIn
Email this Page
Print this Page
Follow Us
@HSI_SanAntonio
May 16, 2025
Laredo
, TX
, United States
Worksite Enforcement
ICE Laredo, federal partners arrest 31 illegal aliens during a 1-day targeted worksite enforcement operation
LAREDO, Texas — U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, in coordination with federal, state and local law enforcement agencies, conducted a targeted worksite enforcement operation at a business and two construction sites in South Texas. The one-day operation, aimed at bolstering public safety, resulted in the arrest of 31 individuals for immigration-related violations.
During the operation, ICE Homeland Security Investigations conducted records checks and found that several of those arrested had prior criminal convictions. Offenses included aggravated criminal sexual assault, bodily harm, possession of a controlled substance, probation violations, evading arrest, transporting noncitizens, domestic violence/strangulation, terroristic threats against family or household members, possession of prohibited weapons in a weapons-free zone, unauthorized use of a vehicle, and evading arrest or detention in the United States.
The individuals arrested were citizens of Mexico, Honduras and El Salvador, and illegally present in the United States. All have been transferred to ICE custody and are pending removal proceedings.
Federal law requires employers to verify the identity and employment eligibility of all individuals they hire, using the Employment Eligibility Verification Form I-9. ICE uses the I-9 inspection program to promote compliance with these requirements, as part of a broader strategy to address and deter the employment of unauthorized workers. These inspections are among the federal government’s most effective tools to enforce U.S. employment laws.
HSI’s worksite enforcement strategy includes leveraging the agency’s full range of investigative capabilities. Worksite investigations often uncover additional criminal activity such as alien smuggling, human trafficking, money laundering, document fraud, worker exploitation, and substandard wages or working conditions.
This investigation was conducted by HSI with support from ICE Enforcement and Removal Operations; the Drug Enforcement Administration; the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives; U.S. Border Patrol; U.S. Customs and Border Protection’s Office of Field Operations; CBP Air and Marine Operations; the Webb County Sheriff’s Office; the Zapata County Sheriff’s Office; and the Laredo Police Department.
Members of the public can report crimes or suspicious activity by calling the ICE Tip Line at 866-DHS-2-ICE (866-347-2423) or by completing the
online tip form
.
For more information about HSI San Antonio and its public safety efforts in Central and South Texas, follow HSI San Antonio on X at
@HSI_SanAntonio
.
Updated:
06/13/2025
Home
Who We Are
Newsroom
Information Library
Contact ICE
Careers
En Español