‘Empty building sites’: North Carolina immigration crackdown sparks fear among workers - France 24
Skip to main content
Advertising
‘Empty building sites’: North Carolina immigration crackdown sparks fear among workers
Americas
As a major federal immigration enforcement operation began targeting Charlotte, North Carolina, in mid-November, numerous construction sites and local businesses temporarily shut down. The president of a worker union speaks out against agents targeting workers while on the job, demanding the Trump administration “end its reign of terror”.
Issued on:
28/11/2025 - 18:00
6 min
Reading time
By:
The FRANCE 24 Observers
/
Lise KIENNEMANN
Social media videos show deserted construction sites across Charlotte, North Carolina, following a recent federal immigration enforcement operation in the city.
© TikTok / alejandraderangel
Following the launch of a federal
immigration
enforcement operation by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) in the Democratic-run city of Charlotte, North Carolina, videos showing empty construction sites, devoid of workers, circulated widely on social media.
Dubbed “Charlotte’s web”, the operation conducted by the Customs and Border Protection (CBP) and the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) led to the arrest of more than 250 people between November 15 and 18, 2025, according to
DHS
. One week after the launch of the operation,
CBS
reported that less than a third of those arrested were classified as criminals.
One
video
shared on
TikTok
shows the work site of a residential area in the northeast of the city, with a caption reading: “In Charlotte, NC, empty construction sites for fear of ice.”
This TikTok video, posted on November 19, 2025, shows an empty construction site in Charlotte. “In so many years in the US, this is the first time I've seen the situation this sad,” the caption reads. Source: TikTok / alejandraderangel
To display this content from TikTok, you must enable advertisement tracking and audience measurement.
Accept
Manage my choices
"Nobody showed up for work... ice," wrote another
TikTok user
, who has regularly posted construction-related videos on the platform for months. In another
video
, he added: "Charlotte, we are going through difficult times... We are hardworking migrants, not criminals."
“Work practically empty because of the Border Patrol raids in Charlotte,” reads the caption of this TikTok video posted on November 17. Source: TikTok / elvin.chacon2
To display this content from TikTok, you must enable advertisement tracking and audience measurement.
Accept
Manage my choices
In North Carolina's capital, Raleigh, where the raids expanded, 200 construction workers were reported missing the week of November 17, according to industry sources who spoke to local news outlet
Carolina Journal
.
The operation targets a state with a substantial immigrant population. Foreign-born individuals constitute nearly
17% of Charlotte’s residents
and make up
12% of North Carolina’s labour force
. ​​Their contribution is even greater in some sectors, accounting for 27 percent of construction workers.
‘Reign of terror on immigrant workers’
Amid the operation, organisations have spoken out against the impact of the raids on workers and businesses, condemning ICE for targeting people at work.
In a
statement
released on November 19, the North Carolina State American Federation of Labour and Congress of Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIO), one of the largest federations of unions in the US, demanded the Trump administration “end its reign of terror on immigrant workers”, blasting the operation as “a serious threat to the basic rights of all working people”.
Its president, Braxton Winston, personally witnessed the operation. A
video
he livestreamed to Facebook on November 16 shows residents chasing Border Patrol agents through the woods as the agents approached a forestry site.
"They focus on messing with people at work, generating revenue, building our city,” he says in the video. “They are not going up with people who are doing things wrong; they’re dealing with people who are at work.”
Speaking to our team, Winston highlighted the agents’ tactics instilled fear across the entire community:
“It's not about whether you're undocumented or not. They were targeting people who – and I put air quotes – ‘look like they were born in a foreign country.’
I saw them pull up on a guy who was just cleaning up a parking lot, and they started asking him, ‘What country were you born in?’
Some of our workers weren't even immigrants. This is not about any type of deep investigation. This is a wide net that was used to spark fear in a certain population of people, particularly our brothers and sisters from Central and South America.”
This is the November 16 livestream video Winston posted to Facebook. Source: Facebook / Braxton Winston
To display this content from Facebook, you must enable advertisement tracking and audience measurement.
Accept
Manage my choices
‘Entire work sites were closed’
Winston also witnessed the consequences of the raids on the city:
“It terrorised whole classes of workers, it slowed the economy of our community.  Entire work sites, including several major construction sites, were closed.
There were entire neighborhoods where small businesses were closed. For a week, it was dangerous for people to leave their homes and go to work."
Several Charlotte businesses announced their decision to temporarily close on social media.
Among them is Legends, an ice cream shop.
Its co-owner explained
in an Instagram video that the closure was necessary to protect his employees and customers. “Everyone’s safety is more important,” he said.
“As of right now, I cannot take the risk to bring my employee to be profiled,”
he told the local news outlet CharlotteFive.
In this November 17 video, the co-owner of Charlotte’s Legends Ice Cream explains why he decided to temporarily close his shop.
To display this content from Instagram, you must enable advertisement tracking and audience measurement.
Accept
Manage my choices
A bakery, which has been a cornerstone of the immigrant community, also made headlines by closing its doors –
the first time in 28 years
.
Many of these businesses have since
reopened
. But while local law enforcement said that
CBP agents
would leave the city on November 21, Department of Homeland Security Assistant Secretary Tricia McLaughlin
said in a November 20 statement
that “the operation is not over and it is not ending anytime soon". Moreover, ICE agents are expected to continue operations there.
‘There are small businesses that can't survive being impeded for a week’
Winston also warns that those closures are not without impacts:
“There are small businesses that can't survive being impeded for a week. A business isn't a natural disaster, where they can go to their insurance company to get reimbursed.
I saw ‘mom-and-pop stores’ – family or neighbourhood stores – closing. They're losing $2,500 in revenue on average [daily]. That's a lot of money for those stores that survive based on their foot traffic day-to-day."
A survey of 90 Charlotte business owners conducted by nonprofit CharlotteEast and reported by US media outlet
Axios
found that 47% of those were closed for at least three days.
However, Winston stresses that the real impact of these raids is still to be determined:
“That's some of the work that we're turning to now to get data about the real economic impact that the community felt from people not going to work or not spending money.
We'll still have to see because we have a lot of big projects going on in Charlotte, from construction sites. Only a small amount of work stoppage is built into those budgets, especially today when inflation is slowing economic activity. Events like these can have domino effects. We're just starting to quantify what those look like."
In response to the operation, the
city of Charlotte
has committed $100,000 to support families who have lost wages or faced financial hardships because they were unable to work after their businesses closed or they stayed home out of fear.
The Secure Growth Initiative, which represents more than 100,000 small businesses nationally,
is also pushing
to hold the federal government responsible for the economic loss due to mass deportation policies. Their study
indicates
that, across the US, one in five business owners reports losing employees due to immigration crackdowns.
‘The Border Patrol wants to do its work under the cover of darkness’
While condemning the federal operation, Winston highlighted the community effort to aid the affected workers.
“We took the lessons that were learned in other places, and we organized to protect people who were targets.
For instance, our partners at Carolina Migrant Network and Siembra North Carolina set up a hotline where everybody could communicate what they were seeing. Therefore, they were able to provide rapid responses so that we could go and support the areas where the actions were happening. The Border Patrol wants to do its work under the cover of darkness. It's really important for people to show up to film and make it uncomfortable for them to abduct people without a warrant, which was happening."
In the video he posted to Facebook, Winston also calls for greater involvement from the business community, relying on these workers. “Bankers, millionaires, billionaires, get on the phone and tell these people [the federal agents] to get out of our city…  Where is my business alliance there? Business community, you need to stand up right now…"
Read next
‘We want everyone to feel safe’: The Chicago businesses barring ICE agents
Americas
‘I ended up losing my mind’: Six days in solitary confinement at an ICE facility
Americas
‘I couldn’t breathe’: ICE agents fire tear gas at peaceful protesters in Chicago suburb
Americas
Today's top stories
Live: Iran fighting 'war against terrorists', parliament speaker says as protest crackdown worsens
Live
Middle East
Russia says hypersonic Oreshnik missile hit Ukrainian aircraft repair plant
Europe
French far-right leader Marine Le Pen faces high-stakes trial ahead of presidential race
France
Cuba's Diaz-Canel says there are no current talks with US after Trump threats
Americas
Swiss court orders Crans-Montana bar owner held in preventive custody after deadly fire
Europe
Advertising
Most read
1
Maduro supporters rally as Trump signs order protecting US-held revenue from Venezuelan oil
Americas
2
New video filmed by ICE agent emerges of Minnesota woman’s killing
Americas
3
Death toll rises in Iran, authorities call for counter-protests
As it happened
Middle East
4
‘We don’t want to be Americans’: Greenland’s parties respond to new Trump threat
Europe
5
Iran’s Revolutionary Guards declare 'red line' on security as protests escalate
Middle East
6
Trump urges Cuba to cut deal with US 'before it's too late'
Americas
Keywords for this article
The Observers
USA
Donald Trump
Page not found
The content you requested does not exist or is not available anymore.