Title: At Broadview ICE facility, federal agents hurl tear gas and pepper spray at protesters blocking vans
Authors: Caroline Kubzansky, Rebecca Johnson
Published: 2025-09-19 00:00:00

Federal agents hurled tear gas and pepper spray into a crowd of about 100 protesters who attempted to block vans from entering and exiting a U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement holding facility in Broadview on Friday morning.

Protesters flocked to the west suburban building, which had its windows and doors boarded up, early in the morning to protest the Donald Trump administration’s immigration crackdown known as “Operation Midway Blitz.” Protesters chanted, sang and screamed at a group of agents in military fatigues and masks who walked back and forth on the building’s roof.

At around 8:30 a.m., agents threw multiple gas canisters and fired pepper-spray balls to disperse the crowd as a group of people were trying to block a van from leaving the building. Agents grabbed one man who appeared to be charging up the driveway, pinned him to the ground and hustled him behind the gate with his hands behind his back.

Protesters said two other people had been detained that morning. The U.S. Department of Homeland Security later confirmed in a news release that federal law enforcement arrested three protesters.

The protest continued into Friday night, as about 100 demonstrators returned to the facility to resume their pleas. Tensions escalated around 7:45 p.m. as federal agents hurled tear gas and flash-bang grenades into the crowd as they left the facility’s gate, sending demonstrators running.

Afterward, Cook County Commissioner Jessica Vasquez, 8th, and state Sen. Graciela Guzman, D-20th, stood together down the road from the facility. The lawmakers said five people had been detained through the evening and that they hadn’t been released as of 8:30 p.m.

“I’m very angry,” Vasquez said, her voice wavering. “I feel, as an American citizen myself, my government is betraying the people.”

“I’m incredibly infuriated, you know? … These are U.S. citizens that have a right to freedom of speech and to protest,” Guzman said.

The moment federal agents threw tear gas grenades into the crowd was extremely frightening, Guzman said. About 50 protesters remained outside the facility, demanding the release of those detained.

Homeland Security characterized the protest as an “organized effort to obstruct ICE law enforcement,” accusing protesters of throwing tear gas cans and assaulting officers. The department pointed the finger at Democratic politicians who it said have “villainized and demonized ICE law enforcement.”

“The violent targeting of law enforcement in Illinois by lawless rioters is despicable and Governor JB Pritzker and Mayor Brandon Johnson must call for it to end,” said Assistant Secretary Tricia McLaughlin. “The men and women of ICE put their lives on the line to protect the people of Illinois and all Americans.”

Homeland Security also said “police under JB Pritzker’s sanctuary jurisdiction refused to answer multiple calls for assistance,” a claim that a Broadview spokesperson refuted in an afternoon statement.

The statement said the Broadview Police Department received only one call from ICE at 11:39 a.m. informing police that objects were thrown onto the railroad tracks behind the ICE facility. Police contacted Harbor Belt Railroad, the company responsible for track security, to address ICE’s concerns, the village said.

Additionally, the village said ICE leadership had agreed to inform police before it deployed “chemical arms” like mace or tear gas, so officers could be prepared. The statement said ICE failed to do that Friday morning, exposing police officers to the tear gas. The Fire Department transported one protester to a nearby hospital.

“Because Broadview respects the rule of law, we will defend the constitutionally protected right to peaceful protest and will accept no interference with that right,” the village said. “Simultaneously, we will reject any illegal behavior that puts Broadview police officers’ safety or the safety of local businesses and residents at risk.”

It was the second Friday in a row protests have escalated as activists stage hourslong demonstrations outside the facility. Agents had forcefully cleared the crowd at least twice Friday morning.

Shortly after that standoff, Curtis Evans stood directly in front of the gate with an American flag. The 65-year-old Evanston resident heard about the first protest on social media and came to represent “the ideals that our country stands for.” He said tear gas and pepper balls hurt, but “five minutes later, you’re fine.”

“None of us have ever done this before,” he said. “All of this is new, and I just wanted to stand up as American and be seen and make my presence felt.”

Among those protesting were two Democratic candidates seeking to represent the 9th Congressional District, progressive content creator Kat Abughazaleh and Evanston Mayor Daniel Biss. The district includes parts of the North Side as well as many north and northwest suburbs. Broadview is in the 7th Congressional District, many miles away.

Other elected officials, including Lt. Gov. Julianna Stratton and Chicago Aldermen Andre Vazquez and Byron Sigcho-Lopez, also showed up.

Katrina Thompson, the mayor of Broadview, criticized Biss’ participation, saying his “provocations” outside the ICE facility made an already-tense situation worse, adding, “He should know better. He’s a mayor.”

Abughazaleh posted footage to her 117,000 followers on Instagram of an agent shoving her to the ground.

“The last time today was rough,” she told the Tribune. “I believe a car was coming out or coming in. I stood up and this guy picked me up around my chest and threw me to the ground.”

Abughazaleh said the behavior by agents at the protests has continued to escalate each week, including the “sheer force in how they threw me to the ground.”

“This week has been atrocious, the fact that they were content to run us over, tear gas us, shot us with pepper balls,” she said. “But what we are dealing with is not as bad as what the people in that building, that are being trapped in there, are dealing with.”

The ACLU of Illinois said in a statement last week that Broadview protesters “have the right to express themselves about government policy.” They said federal officers shouldn’t respond to First Amendment activity with “physical force and the firing of projectiles.”

“It’s obvious these guys are trying to intimidate,” Biss said. He said the agents, who were armed and masked, rushed out into the crowd. He could be seen at one point on his knees on the street.

“They drove the car into us,” he said. “I couldn’t breathe.”

Chicago Tribune reporter Tess Kenny contributed.