Federal Judge Releases Disabled Veteran From ICE Custody | Military.com Profile Profile Subscriptions Log out News News Home Army Navy Air Force Marine Corps Coast Guard Space Force Military Podcasts Opinion Videos Benefits Benefits Home Military Pay and Money GI Bill Veteran Health Care Tricare VA Loans Insurance Retirement VA eBenefits Veteran Jobs Veteran Job Search Upload Your Resume Veteran Employment Project Vet Friendly Employers Career Advice Military Life Military Life Home Money Off Duty Fitness Military Trivia Game Veterans Day Spouse &amp; Family Deployment Military History Discounts Discounts Home Featured Discounts Veterans Day Restaurant Discounts Dining Travel Retail Insurance Services Auto Electronics Join the Military Join the Military Home ASVAB Contact a Recruiter Military Fitness Benefits Login Sign up Profile Subscriptions Log out Sign up GO Sign up Profile Profile Subscriptions Log out News News Home Army Navy Air Force Marine Corps Coast Guard Space Force Military Podcasts Opinion Videos Benefits Benefits Home Military Pay and Money GI Bill Veteran Health Care Tricare VA Loans Insurance Retirement VA eBenefits Veteran Jobs Veteran Job Search Upload Your Resume Veteran Employment Project Vet Friendly Employers Career Advice Military Life Military Life Home Money Off Duty Fitness Military Trivia Game Veterans Day Spouse &amp; Family Deployment Military History Discounts Discounts Home Featured Discounts Veterans Day Restaurant Discounts Dining Travel Retail Insurance Services Auto Electronics Join the Military Join the Military Home ASVAB Contact a Recruiter Military Fitness Benefits News Army Navy Air Force Marine Corps Coast Guard Space Force Military Podcasts Opinion Videos More Military News Federal Judge Releases Disabled Veteran From ICE Custody U.S. federal agents working for Immigration and Customs Enforcement detain immigrants and asylum-seekers reporting for immigration court proceedings at the Jacob K. Javits Federal Building&#039;s U.S. Immigration Court in New York City in July. (Dominic Gwinn/Middle East Images/AFP/Getty Images/TNS) The Seattle Times | By Alexandra Yoon-Hendricks Published December 23, 2025 at 9:27am ET TACOMA — A federal judge on Monday morning ordered the immediate release of a disabled U.S. Army veteran who has been held at the Northwest ICE Processing Center in Tacoma, Washington since August. Muhammad Zahid Chaudhry, who is originally from Pakistan and has been living in the United States since 2000, was detained by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement on Aug. 21 at the Tukwila U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services office after completing a scheduled citizenship interview. Since then, Chaudhry has been experiencing serious medical issues because of a lack of treatment at the detention center, his family and advocates allege. By around 5 p.m. Monday, Chaudhry had been released from the detention center and picked up by his wife, Melissa Chaudhry. Reviewing Muhammad Zahid Chaudhry’s habeas corpus petition seeking release from ICE custody, U.S. District Chief Judge David G. Estudillo told the courtroom Monday he found Chaudhry’s detention unlawful. Under the order, Chaudhry will be allowed to return home while his ongoing immigration case proceeds. "It’s a good day for justice in America and yet this should have never have happened in the first place. If Government errors can put an Honorable, decorated Disabled American veteran in Detention for over 4 months, then no American is safe," Chaudhry said in a statement after he was released. The federal judge, who was appointed by President Joe Biden in 2021, ordered Chaudhry’s release on the basis of “the lack of process that was provided (to) detaining him in the first instance.” “Clearly somebody is not looking at this in the right way or in the right context when they’re detaining individuals,” Estudillo said. “The frustration is people are just not following the procedures that they're supposed to.” Estudillo told the courtroom he planned to file a written order within a few hours. Assistant U.S. Attorney Michelle Lambert, representing the federal government, acknowledged during oral arguments that based on prior rulings in the district, Chaudhry should have received notification before his arrest so he would have the opportunity to challenge the basis of his detention. In his written ruling, Estudillo said immigration enforcement officials may not re-detain Chaudhry unless he receives written notice, "along with an appropriate opportunity to respond to notice. “We are grateful to the court for its attention today, we respect the judge, we respect the process, and we have faith in the rule of law,” Melissa Chaudhry said outside the U.S. District Court in Tacoma to a crowd of supporters shortly after the hearing. Muhammad Zahid Chaudhry’s arrest in August sparked outrage among supporters, who describe him as an active community member with a history of service. He served on former Gov. Jay Inslee’s Committee on Disability Issues and Employment, and is the president of the Veterans for Peace Olympia chapter. Chaudhry received lawful permanent resident status in April 2001. He enlisted in the Washington Army National Guard the same year, and served until 2005. He was honorably discharged due to a back injury sustained while training to go to Iraq in 2003. Before his detainment, Chaudhry lived in Lacey with his wife and their two children. Melissa Chaudhry ran for Congress in 2024 in Washington’s 9th Congressional District. Muhammad Zahid Chaudhry has been fighting to secure his citizenship in a cascade of litigation over nearly two decades, ultimately bringing his case before the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals. He first applied for citizenship on the basis of his military service in April 2004. In his application, he noted he had a criminal conviction for fraud in Australia, where he lived before moving to the U.S., related to using a passport and credit card that wasn't his, according to court records. That disclosure raised a red flag with immigration officials, who argued in court Chaudhry previously failed to mention those convictions in his tourist visa application, as well as in an interview related to his green-card application. Melissa Chaudhry said her husband has never broken the law in the U.S., and that the convictions in Australia carried a lenient sentence equivalent to paying a parking ticket. In August 2008, an immigration judge denied Chaudhry’s application for naturalization, and ICE moved to deport him the following year. In a number of legal filings, Chaudhry has fought back against the threat of deportation and the denial of his citizenship application. The 9th Circuit Court of Appeals, which is reviewing Chaudhry's case, issued a stay of removal in 2020, preventing his deportation until the case concludes. That remains in effect. “Because the circuit currently has that stay in place, there’s no basis to detain,” Estudillo said in court Monday. Numerous health and human rights violations at the Tacoma detention center have been documented over the years by researchers and government agencies, including severe medical neglect, unsanitary food and swamplike water. People who have been held there report having limited access to basic hygiene supplies like soap and long wait times when they’re in need of medical treatment. From the bench, Estudillo expressed concern about Chaudhry’s medical care at the detention center. The judge noted, for example, that Chaudhry has gone four months without being seen by an ophthalmologist despite having impaired vision because of his thyroid eye disease. “After years of chronic pain and medical complications, his conditions today are severe, well documented, and incompatible with detention and deportation,” said Micaela Romero, an organizer with Washington Community Action Network and a family friend of the Chaudhrys, outside the courthouse. Chaudhry’s immigration status remains in the hands of the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. Estudillo noted that if the circuit were to lift the stay of removal, at that point, Chaudhry could be eligible for detention under U.S. immigration law. Melissa Chaudhry said she expects the panel of appeals court judges to convene and review her husband’s case in January. “They could order him deported, they could order him naturalized back to 2003, we don’t know” she said. “But he will be home with us when we find that out.” Material from The Seattle Times archives was used in this report. © 2025 The Seattle Times. Visit www.seattletimes.com . Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC. Related Topics: Military Headlines Immigration &amp; Citizenship Pakistan National Guard &copy; Copyright 2026 The Seattle Times . All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. You May Also Like After Military Separation, How to Truly Achieve Work-Life Balance Over the 16 years I’ve worked in the military transition space, service members and military spouses have consistently... IRS: Don’t Report $1,776 &#039;Warrior Dividend&#039; on Your Tax Return The “Warrior Dividend” payments of $1,776 made to military service members in December 2025 definitely won’t be subject to... US Aircraft Carrier Arrives in the Middle East as Tensions With Iran Remain High The aircraft carrier USS Abraham Lincoln and three accompanying warships have arrived in the Middle East. A Workout for Days When You Have Only 20-30 Minutes to Train With a well structured workout template that incorporates dynamic warmups, strength training and cardio options, you can... Military News Investigations and Features Army Navy Air Force Marine Corps Coast Guard Space Force Military Opinion Select Service Army Marines Navy Air Force National Guard Coast Guard Space Force Spouse Login Army My Profile Army Home Page Navy My Profile Navy Home Page Air Force My Profile Air Force Home Page Marines My Profile Marines Home Page Coast Guard My Profile Coast Guard Home Page Space Force My Profile Space Force Home Page National Guard My Profile National Guard Home Page Spouse My Profile Spouse Home Page &nbsp; My Profile News Home Page Most Popular Military News Navy Commodore Relieved of Duties, First In Role To Lose Job in 2026 The relieved commodore lost the &quot;trust and confidence&quot; of superiors, will retain a staff position. This Marine Married Chesty Puller’s Daughter and Was Recommended for the Medal of Honor at Khe Sanh In 1967, Vietnam, Capt. Bill Dabney chose the Marine unit closest to the enemy—an instinct that soon put him and his men at... Pentagon Overhauls Military Moving System After Years of Family Complaints The Pentagon is overhauling its broken military moving system to centralize control, modernize technology and restore trust... The Last Living Witness to Lincoln’s Assassination Told His Story on a 1950s Game Show Samuel J. Seymour was just five years old when he sat in the balcony at Ford’s Theatre on April 14, 1865, and heard the... 2026 Military Pay Charts Military service members will receive a 3.8% pay raise in 2026. Some senior officers may receive smaller percentages. Latest Benefits Info Feb. 1 Is the Deadline to Apply for a 2026 Tillman Foundation Scholarship Military Spouses: Here’s What to Remember About Filing State Taxes Overview: MILITARY STAR Card 4 Year-End Money Deadlines Veterans Can&#039;t Afford to Miss VA&#039;s AI Tools Lack Patient Safety Oversight, Watchdog Warns View more More Military Headlines After Military Separation, How to Truly Achieve Work-Life Balance Over the 16 years I’ve worked in the military transition space, service members and military spouses have consistently... US Aircraft Carrier Arrives in the Middle East as Tensions With Iran Remain High The aircraft carrier USS Abraham Lincoln and three accompanying warships have arrived in the Middle East. A Workout for Days When You Have Only 20-30 Minutes to Train With a well structured workout template that incorporates dynamic warmups, strength training and cardio options, you can... IRS: Don’t Report $1,776 &#039;Warrior Dividend&#039; on Your Tax Return The “Warrior Dividend” payments of $1,776 made to military service members in December 2025 definitely won’t be subject to... Trump Administration Invests in Another US Rare Earth Miner to Loosen China’s Grip on Supply The U.S. is taking a minority stake in an Oklahoma rare earth miner, the latest government investment in the sector as it... View more Army A U-Boat Killed 763 American Soldiers on Christmas Eve in 1944. The Army Kept It Secret for 50 Years DePaul Student Unlocks Power of AI to Help Fellow Veterans Battling Homelessness Army Corps of Engineers Relieves Little Rock District Commander Amid Leadership Accountability Push View more Air Force Iran&#039;s Revolutionary Guard Commander Warns the US, Says His Force Has its &#039;Finger on the Trigger&#039; Irish Lawmaker Wants Legislation Requiring US Military Aircraft Inspections Pentagon Brushes Off Request to Understand How Wind Turbines Threaten National Security View more Navy US Aircraft Carrier Arrives in the Middle East as Tensions With Iran Remain High Yemen Rebels Threaten New Red Sea Attack as US Aircraft Carrier Heads Toward Iran Navy Commodore Relieved of Duties, First In Role To Lose Job in 2026 View more Military Benefits Updates Military Spouses: Here’s What to Remember About Filing State Taxes VA&#039;s AI Tools Lack Patient Safety Oversight, Watchdog Warns ‘Sheepdog’ Turns Veteran Trauma into a Mission of Hope View more Marine Corps This Marine Married Chesty Puller’s Daughter and Was Recommended for the Medal of Honor at Khe Sanh ‘Combat Comedian’ Boosts Marine Corps Morale Through Laughter The Forgotten Army Soldiers That Fought Alongside the Marines at Belleau Wood View more Coast Guard Coast Guard Battles Winter Ice on Great Lakes Station South Padre Island Receives Record $200M Facelift From Coast Guard New US Coast Guard Commandant Kevin Lunday Sworn In: &#039;Nation Will Prevail&#039; View more Entertainment The Last Living Witness to Lincoln’s Assassination Told His Story on a 1950s Game Show Why the New Game of Thrones Spinoff Takes Place in Westeros’ Rare Moment of Peace CBS News Considers Cutting Gayle King’s Role and Salary Amid Major Leadership Shake-Up View more GO Sign up Profile Profile Subscriptions Log out News News Home Army Navy Air Force Marine Corps Coast Guard Space Force Military Podcasts Opinion Videos Benefits Benefits Home Military Pay and Money GI Bill Veteran Health Care Tricare VA Loans Insurance Retirement VA eBenefits Veteran Jobs Veteran Job Search Upload Your Resume Veteran Employment Project Vet Friendly Employers Career Advice Military Life Military Life Home Money Off Duty Fitness Military Trivia Game Veterans Day Spouse &amp; Family Deployment Military History Discounts Discounts Home Featured Discounts Veterans Day Restaurant Discounts Dining Travel Retail Insurance Services Auto Electronics Join the Military Join the Military Home ASVAB Contact a Recruiter Military Fitness Benefits Military.com Network Air Force Army Coast Guard Marine Corps National Guard Navy Space Force About Military.com About Us &amp; Press Room RSS Advertise with Us Reprints &amp; Permissions Subscriptions User Agreement Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Site Map Military &amp; Veteran Journalism Fund Need customer support? Visit our Customer Support center for solutions or to contact us. Customer Support © 2026 Military.com AdChoices