ICE in MN: ICE Out rally; arrests at MSP Airport | FOX 9 Minneapolis-St. Paul Live News Weather Sports Things to Do Contests More Watch Live Expand / Collapse search ☰ Search site News Local News National News World News Investigators Politics Consumer FOX News Sunday Weather FOX 9 Weather App Forecast School Closings Live Weather Cameras Traffic FOX Weather Sports Vikings Gophers Twins Wild Timberwolves Lynx United Aurora Morning Shayne Wells Garden Guy Recipes Money Personal Finance Business Stock Market Small Business Savings Shows FOX Shows The Jason Show FOX 9 Good Day All Day Enough Said Vikings Gameday Live The PJ Fleck Show FOX 9 Sports Now Taste Buds The Afternoon Shift The Jason Show Swag Shop The FOX 9 Store Regional News Milwaukee News - FOX 6 News Chicago News - FOX 32 Chicago Detroit News - FOX 2 Detroit About Us Contact Us Contests Personalities Jobs at FOX 9 What's On FOX Advertise FCC Public File FCC Applications Stay Connected How to stream FOX LOCAL Mobile Newsletter Facebook Instagram Twitter TikTok YouTube ICE in MN: ICE Out rally; arrests at MSP Airport By FOX 9 Staff Published January 23, 2026 8:40am CST Minneapolis ICE shooting FOX 9 Share Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Reddit The Brief Hundreds of businesses are closed on Friday for an "ICE Out" general strike across Minnesota. The Department of Homeland Security continues to beseech state officials for more immigration enforcement cooperation. Find live updates on ICE operations in Minnesota below. MINNEAPOLIS, Minn. (FOX 9) - Organizers of a statewide &quot;Day of Action&quot; across Minnesota are calling for no work , school or shopping to take a stand against ICE operations in the state. &#xA0; ICE leaders in Minnesota, along with Border Patrol Commander at Large Greg Bovino, spoke at the Whipple Federal Building on Friday morning. They touted the recent arrests made in Operation Metro Surge, shared updates on the 5-year-old boy who was taken into their custody after his father was arrested and clarified that the Minnesota Department of Corrections does honor ICE detainers.&#xA0; Authorities also made arrests at Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport, where members of the clergy held an anti-ICE protest. Footage from that demonstration and further details can be found below.&#xA0; This all precedes the &quot;ICE Out of MN: A Day of Truth and Freedom&quot; march in downtown Minneapolis and a rally inside Target Center.&#xA0; READ MORE: ICE Out protests in MN: Arrests at MSP Airport, dispersal order at Whipple Watch FOX 9 live in the player at the top of the page. Additional coverage, including of live events, can be found in the player below. Find live updates on ICE operations in Minnesota below. 6 p.m. - MSP confirms 100 arrested at airport protest Clergy members held a protest on Friday at MSP Airport on Friday morning, calling on airlines to stand with Minnesotans and call for ICE to leave the state. FOX 9 has confirmed that the peaceful protest concluded around noon on Friday, with MSP Airport Police arresting approximately 100 people who were charged and released from custody. Those arrested were issued misdemeanor citations for trespassing and failure to comply with a peace officer, according to a Metropolitan Airport Commission (MAC) spokesperson. 5:30 p.m. - ICE Out rally heads inside Target Center As part of the ICE Out rally protesting the presence of immigration enforcement officers operating in Minnesota, people have filed into Target Center in downtown Minneapolis as part of a coordinated rally. FOX 9 has a crew onsite at the event, which includes a host of speakers, can be watched live on the FOX 9 YouTube page . 2:30 p.m. - Hearing scheduled in State of Minnesota vs. Noem Minnesota Attorney General Kieth Ellison filed a lawsuit against the U.S. Department of Homeland Security in an effort to end Operation Metro Surge.&#xA0; That hearing is set to happen at 9 a.m. on Monday, Jan. 26 inside the Diana E. Murphy Federal Building.&#xA0; The lawsuit alleges that the operation violates the first and tenth amendments of the U.S. Constitution as well as the Administrative Procedure Act.&#xA0; 2 p.m. - Downtown Minneapolis ‘ICE Out’ protest ICE Out march in downtown Minneapolis A large crowd of people marched to Target Center in Minneapolis on Friday as part of an ICE Out of Minnesota rally. Protesters are marching from The Commons to the Target Center in downtown Minneapolis as part of the &quot;ICE Out of MN: A Day of Truth and Freedom&quot; demonstration.&#xA0; Target Center is then set to host a ticketed event inside the arena on Friday afternoon.&#xA0; Images show many people in line at Target Center awaiting the event.&#xA0; 'ICE Out' march, rally planned on day of action in MN Organizers of a statewide &quot;Day of Action&quot; across Minnesota are calling for no work, school or shopping to take a stand against ICE operations in the state. A march and rally are planned in downtown Minneapolis on Friday afternoon. 1:50 p.m. - Apple Valley School District tells ICE to leave school grounds A news release from Minnesota School District said a staff member told ICE agents to leave school property when they were found in the school parking lot at about 10:30 a.m. on Friday, Jan. 23. The district shared the following statement: &quot;Administrators observed a vehicle that was parked in the exit drive on the northwest side of the high school. School was closed due to extreme cold at the time, and no students were present. &quot;Per district protocol, administration approached the vehicle, verified the presence of ICE agents on school property, and asked the agents to leave. The vehicle left without incident. &quot;The safety of our students, staff, and families is always our top priority. We investigate all reports of unusual activity on our property and work closely with local law enforcement to resolve any incident. &quot;We are also investigating reports of ICE at Valley Middle School this afternoon.&quot; 1:45 p.m - MN Queer Caucus condemns DOJ refusal to investigate fatal shooting of Renee Good The Minnesota Queer Legislators Caucus condemned U.S. Deputy Attorney General Todd Blanche&apos;s announcement that the Department of justice will not investigate ICE agent Jonathan Ross for the fatal shooting of Renee Good.&#xA0; The Caucus shared a statement that partially said the following:&#xA0; &quot;Ren&#xE9;e Good should still be alive today. Her death is a tragedy that was completely avoidable. Ren&#xE9;e, her wife, and her children deserve a full investigation into the circumstances of her killing. Instead, the federal administration&#xA0;has callously blamed Ren&#xE9;e for her own&#xA0;death. &#xA0; &quot;This is a deplorable abuse of power. Under any other circumstance where a life is taken, an investigation is conducted, and the judicial system guarantees due process. To deny an investigation is to deny justice.&#xA0;It ensures that the perpetrator, Johnathan Ross, is never held accountable for his actions.&#xA0; &#xA0; &quot;The Minnesota Queer Legislators Caucus&#xA0;demands&#xA0;the arrest of Jonathan Ross for the killing of Ren&#xE9;e Good, a US citizen exercising her First Amendment right.&quot; 1:30 p.m. - Educators hold anti-ICE protest at Minneapolis City Hall Educators hold a sit-in protest at Minneapolis City Hall. (FOX 9) About 60 Twin Cities educators are holding a sit-in protest at Minneapolis City Hall.&#xA0; They played songs and read stories in Spanish to show support for the Twin Cities immigrant community.&#xA0; 12:30 p.m. - Doctors at Hennepin County Medical Center call ICE activity a 'public health crisis' Doctors call for ICE out of hospitals: ‘Our patients are terrified’ Ava, a resident physician in Minneapolis, is speaking out about the impact of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) presence at local hospitals. She reported that patients are “terrified” to come in for medical care. Resident physicians and fellows at Hennepin County Medical Center as well as the University of Minnesota are holding a news conference to demand ICE agents stay out of Minnesota hospitals. A resident physician named Avalon said, &quot;ICE&apos;s occupation of Minnesota has created unsustainable working conditions for doctors and health care workers alike. Our patients are terrified to come into our clinic and come into our hospitals.&quot; Members of the Minnesota Nurses Association were also present to support the message. 12 p.m. - Hennepin Co. Sheriff's Office orders Whipple Building protesters to disperse ICE protests: Arrests at MSP Airport; dispersal orders at Whipple There are reports of arrests at MSP Airport on Friday, where anti-ICE protesters were demonstrating. Protesters were also given dispersal orders outside the Whipple Federal Building. This comes amid a surge of federal immigration officers in the Twin Cities. The Hennepin County Sheriff&apos;s Office said its deputies are responding to &quot;an unlawful assembly at the Whipple Building.&quot; Deputies have reportedly given protesters hours to disperse and clear a road leading to the building.&#xA0; Images from the scene show protesters blocking a road leading to the Whipple Federal Building.&#xA0; Authorities say ice chunks were thrown at vehicles.&#xA0; The public is being told to stay away from the area and that anyone who does not comply with lawful orders will be arrested.&#xA0; 11 a.m. - Judge orders release of 2-year-old girl from ICE custody A 2-year-old child from Ecuador who was taken into ICE custody with her father during a Minneapolis traffic stop on Thursday has been ordered to be released.&#xA0; READ MORE: 2-year-old girl in ICE custody: Judge orders release Attorneys filed emergency habeas for the release of the toddler and her father, citing asylum claims and warrantless arrest.&#xA0; &quot;Respondents have taken a 2-year-old into custody &#x2013; an escalation of violence that is unspeakable, cruel and without any legal basis or justification,&quot; court filings say. The judge ordered the child be released by 9:30 p.m. Friday. The attorney has been given parental authority to pick up the child from detention and return her to her mother.&#xA0; 10:30 a.m. - Faith leaders hold anti-ICE protest at MSP airport, arrests made Anti-ICE protesters gathered outside MSP Airport Protesters gathered outside MSP Airport on Friday, Jan. 23, to protest ICE and the Metropolitan Airport Commission working with federal authorities on deportation flights. Protesters at Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport, led by clergy leaders, called for Delta Air Lines and Signature Aviation to stand with Minnesotans against ICE operations in the state. Organizers with Faith in Minnesota said ICE relies on the companies for logistical support and moving detainees across the country.&#xA0; Images captures at the scene show officers arresting member of the clergy at the airport.&#xA0; FOX 9 has not been able to confirm the number of arrests, but organizers say about 100 people were taken into custody. A spokesperson for MSP shared the following statement: &quot;The Metropolitan Airports Commission worked in advance with event organizers to best accommodate their right to freedom of expression while also ensuring uninterrupted&#xA0;operations&#xA0;at MSP&#xA0;Airport. The approved demonstration permit set a dedicated location and maximum number of participants to&#xA0;maintain&#xA0;the safety of protesters,&#xA0;passengers&#xA0;and airport employees.&#xA0;&#xA0; When the permitted activity went beyond the agreed-upon terms,&#xA0;MSP Airport Police&#xA0;began taking&#xA0;necessary action, including arrests, to protect public safety,&#xA0;airport&#xA0;security&#xA0;and&#xA0;access to Terminal 1.&quot; 10 a.m. - ICE and Border Patrol leaders speak at Whipple Federal Building ICE operations update: Feds claim false narratives [FULL] At a news conference on Friday, Border Patrol Commander at Large Greg Bovino and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Executive Assistant Director of Enforcement and Removal Operations Marcos Charles discussed current operations. Bovino claimed false narratives in the media and said they're working to take people who are in the United States illegally off the streets. Charles said they're presenting the &quot;real facts&quot; and it's about &quot;public safety, not politics.&quot; He listed off some recent arrests of people in the United States illegally. Border Patrol Commander at Large Greg Bovino and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Executive Assistant Director of Enforcement and Removal Operations (ERO) Marcos Charles gathered at the Whipple Federal Building to share an update on Operation Metro Surge. They began by touting the arrests made in recent days, saying they will &quot;not be deterred&quot; in their operations. The border patrol commander then displayed the booking photos of several convicted criminals who they say are in the country illegally.&#xA0; Bovino then spoke about crimes encountered at the U.S. Southern Border and chastised media outlets for a perceived lack of reporting on crimes committed by people in the United States illegally.&#xA0; He then addressed the crimes against children and spoke about the 5-year-old boy, Liam Ramos, who was seen in ICE custody earlier this week. Assistant ERO Director Charles said ICE agents stayed with Liam after Liam&apos;s father fled from them, and that family members refused to take him when they approached their home in Columbia Heights. They then claimed that the family came into the country illegally.&#xA0; Lawyers for the family dispute this claim, saying they came to the U.S. the &quot;right&quot; way. READ MORE: 5-year-old detained by ICE in Columbia Heights: Family came into US the &apos;right&apos; way School staff said during a news conference on Wednesday that an adult in the home &quot;begged&quot; agents to let them care for Liam, but that ICE agents refused. They add that Liam was &quot;essentially used as bait&quot; when he was told to approach the home.&#xA0; Liam is now with his father in a detention facility in Texas, which Charles said is &quot;better than social services.&quot; They were then asked to respond to the data discrepancy between the Minnesota Department of Corrections (DOC) and federal immigration enforcement. &#xA0; Charles said it is true that the Minnesota DOC honors ICE detainers, but that issues arise when other counties and municipalities do not.&#xA0; &quot;When I say the State of Minnesota, I&apos;m not talking about just the Department of Corrections, I&apos;m talking throughout the state, counties, any municipalities that are holding people,&quot; Charles said. &quot;Our stats are detainers for the ones that we count. We don&apos;t go into DOC data and count their data.&quot; The men then spoke about the arrest of three people involved in a protest at a church in St. Paul, where activists called for the resignation of the pastor for his ICE leadership ties. &quot;Federal law protects the freedom of religion and the right to worship without interference,&quot; Marcos said. &quot;What theses agitators did was not a peaceful protest.&quot; FOX 9 reported on Thursday night that the activists were still in custody after a judge ordered their release. 9 a.m. - Renee Good shooting death ruled a homicide The Hennepin County Medical Examiner released a report on Thursday, Jan. 22, that ruled Renee Good&apos;s death a homicide. Her cause of death was officially listed as &quot;multiple gunshot wounds&quot; after she was &quot;shot by a law enforcement officer.&quot; 7:30 a.m. - DHS calls for state and local cooperation The Department of Homeland Security said in a post that Minnesota Gov. Walz and Mayor Jacob Frey must work with the federal government to &quot;make America safe again.&quot; The post refers to a suspect who ICE agents say they were looking for when they raided the home of an elderly Hmong man in St. Paul. Agents were seen detaining the man, who was only wearing Crocs, shorts and a blanket over his shoulders, when they brought him outside in freezing weather.&#xA0; It was later found that the suspect ICE was looking for had been in state custody the whole time.&#xA0; ICE Out Minnesota general strike General strike to protest ICE happening in Minnesota A general strike protesting ICE is unfolding across the Twin Cities on Friday, with business closures and a planned march and rally in downtown Minneapolis. FOX 9's Leah Beno reports. Local perspective: More than 700 businesses across Minnesota are closed as a form of protest against ICE operations in the state.&#xA0; READ MORE: ICE in Minnesota: Business closures, downtown march mark ICE protest in Twin Cities This move, labeled as an &quot;economic blackout,&quot; is aimed at getting the attention of federal authorities and show opposition to the ongoing form of immigration enforcement.&#xA0; With closures continuing to grow due to both the dangerously cold weather and the day of action, residents planning to leave home on Friday are encouraged to check ahead whether businesses, museums, places of worship or other destinations are open.&#xA0; The Source: This story uses information gathered by FOX 9 staff. Minneapolis ICE shooting Immigration Minnesota ICE in Minnesota Your rights if ICE shows up at your door Is Minnesota cooperating with ICE? What we know ICE says it’s illegal to record agents, but is DHS policy actually unlawful? Venezuelan family released, Justice Department officials apologize after St. Paul raid Memorial ride for Alex Pretti planned by Minneapolis bike shop Source: Border Patrol Commander Gregory Bovino demoted amid fallout from Minnesota shootings Women charged with biting Border Patrol agents’ fingers following Alex Pretti shooting ICE in Minnesota: Bovino, Border Patrol agents to leave Minnesota 'imminently' Alex Pretti shooting scene evidence preservation argued in court Border Patrol Commander Bovino, some agents leaving Minnesota 'imminently' Trending ICE in MN: Department of Corrections shows video disputing DHS account of arrests, ICE detainers Minneapolis ICE shooting: Renee Good's death ruled homicide by Hennepin Co. Medical Examiner Minneapolis shooting: National Guard activated after man killed by Border Patrol Minneapolis shooting: Border Patrol fatally shoots Alex Pretti; witness video conflicts DHS Minneapolis shooting: What we know about Alex Pretti, the man killed by Border Patrol agent Daily Newsletter All the news you need to know, every day By clicking Sign Up, I confirm that I have read and agree to the Privacy Policy and Terms of Service . More Minnesota News View More Venezuelan family released, Justice Department officials apologize after St. Paul raid ICE in Minnesota: Bovino, Border Patrol agents to leave Minnesota 'imminently' Border Patrol Commander Bovino, some agents leaving Minnesota 'imminently' Gov. Walz mandates weapons screening at Minnesota Capitol ahead of legislative session ICE in Minnesota lawsuit: Judge hears arguments seeking to block immigration operations FOX LOCAL Watch FOX 9 for free on FOX LOCAL Watch local news, weather, and live events on Roku, Fire TV, and more — just search “FOX LOCAL” News Local News National News World News Investigators Politics Consumer FOX News Sunday Weather FOX 9 Weather App Forecast School Closings Live Weather Cameras Traffic FOX Weather Sports Vikings Gophers Twins Wild Timberwolves Lynx United Aurora Morning Shayne Wells Garden Guy Recipes Money Personal Finance Business Stock Market Small Business Savings Shows FOX Shows The Jason Show FOX 9 Good Day All Day Enough Said Vikings Gameday Live The PJ Fleck Show FOX 9 Sports Now Taste Buds The Afternoon Shift The Jason Show Swag Shop The FOX 9 Store Regional News Milwaukee News - FOX 6 News Chicago News - FOX 32 Chicago Detroit News - FOX 2 Detroit About Us Contact Us Contests Personalities Jobs at FOX 9 What's On FOX Advertise FCC Public File FCC Applications Stay Connected How to stream FOX LOCAL Mobile Newsletter Facebook Instagram Twitter TikTok YouTube facebook twitter email New Privacy Policy Updated Terms of Use Your Privacy Choices FCC Public File EEO Public File Jobs at FOX 9 Contact Us This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2026 FOX Television Stations