Title: ICE detainee passes away at Georgia’s Robert A. Deyton Detention Center
Published: 2026-01-16 00:00:00

LOVEJOY, Ga. — On Jan. 14, 2026, Heber Sanchaz Domínguez, a 34-year-old Mexican national, passed away while in U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement custody at the Robert A. Deyton Detention Center. He was pronounced deceased at 3:09 a.m. EDT after being found unresponsive. The cause of death is currently under investigation.

Sanchaz had been in ICE custody for six days and was awaiting a hearing before the Department of Justice’s Executive Office for Immigration Review. RAD medical staff discovered Sanchaz hanging by the neck and unresponsive in his sleeping quarters at approximately 2:05 a.m. RAD medical staff immediately attempted lifesaving measures and transferred Sanchaz to the Piedmont Henry Medical Center via Emergency Medical Services for further evaluation and treatment. At approximately 3:09 a.m. EDT, Piedmont Henry Medical Center staff pronounced him deceased.

Sanchaz was initially encountered by ICE on January 7, following his arrest by the Richmond County Jail in Georgia for driving without a license. ICE lodged an immigration detainer with the Richmond County Sheriff’s Office. On January 9, ICE filed a Notice to Appear with the Executive Office for Immigration Review, scheduling Sanchaz to appear before an immigration judge.

Sanchaz originally entered the United States at or near Nogales, Arizona, on Dec. 22, 2023, without admission or parole by an immigration officer. U.S. Border Patrol agents arrested him the same day and issued a Notice to Appear, charging him with inadmissibility under federal immigration law. He was subsequently released on his own recognizance.

Following his January 7 arrest, ICE transferred Sanchaz to the Robert A. Deyton Detention Center pending removal proceedings. Medical staff completed the intake process and reported no signs of distress at that time.

Consistent with ICE policy, the Department of Homeland Security Office of Inspector General and the ICE Office of Professional Responsibility were notified through the Joint Intake Center. ICE also notified the Mexican Consulate in Atlanta, which in turn informed Mr. Sanchaz’s next of kin.

ICE makes official notifications to Congress, nongovernmental organization stakeholders, and the media upon reports of in-custody deaths and posts news releases with relevant details on ICE’s public website. You may access this information in ICE.gov’s Newsroom. Congressional requirements described in the DHS Appropriations Act of 2018 require ICE to publicize all reports regarding in-custody deaths within 90 days. You may access these reports on ICE.gov’s Detainee Death Reporting page.

ICE is committed to ensuring that all individuals in custody reside in safe, secure, and humane environments. Comprehensive medical care is provided from the moment individuals arrive and throughout their stay. All individuals in ICE custody receive medical, dental, and mental health intake screenings within 12 hours of arrival at each detention facility; a full health assessment within 14 days; access to medical appointments; and 24-hour emergency care. At no time during detention is a detained individual denied emergency care.