Title: ICE arrests 100+ illegal aliens during targeted enforcement operation in Tallahassee
Published: 2025-05-29 00:00:00

TALLAHASSEE — U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement arrested more than 100 illegal aliens during a targeted enforcement operation at construction sites in the in Tallahassee during a joint agency operation May 29.

The multiagency operation, directed by ICE Homeland Security Investigations Tallahassee, with significant assistance from ICE Enforcement and Removal Operations, Florida Highway Patrol, FBI, Drug Enforcement Administration, Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms, U.S. Marshals Service, Florida Department of Law Enforcement and the Internal Revenue Service - Criminal Investigations, led to the arrest of illegal aliens from Nicaragua, El Salvador, Guatemala, Mexico, Venezuelans, Colombia, and Honduras to name a few.

One was taken into state custody for resisting arrest and is being charged with four counts of assault on law enforcement officers. Another attempted to pull a weapon on officers.

“These types of enforcement actions aim to eliminate illegal employment, holding employers accountable and protecting employment opportunities for America’s lawful workforce,” said ICE HSI Tallahassee Assistant Special Agent in Charge Nicholas Ingegno. “HSI Tallahassee, working alongside our state, local, and federal partners, will continue protecting public safety by enforcing the immigration laws of our nation.”

ICE officials have continually emphasized the agency’s continued focus to identifying public safety and national security threats. Individuals unlawfully present in the United States who are encountered during enforcement operations may be taken into custody and processed for removal in accordance with federal law.

Members of the public with information about suspected immigration violations or related criminal activity are encouraged to contact the ICE Tip Line at 866-DHS-2-ICE (866-347-2423) or submit information online via the ICE Tip Form.

For more information about ICE HSI Tallahassee and its efforts to enhance public safety in Florida, follow us on X at @HSITampa.