Title: ICE Miami, 287(g) partners arrest 400 criminal aliens during Central Florida operations
Published: 2025-09-30 00:00:00

MIAMI — ICE Miami partnered with the Florida Highway Patrol, Polk County Sheriff’s Office, Brevard County Sheriff’s Office, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the Florida National Guard, and other 287(g) partners to arrest more than 400 illegal aliens who were living and working in the United States illegally during a weeklong operation Sept. 22 to Sept. 26.

The targeted enforcement focused on individuals subject to deportation or with outstanding criminal warrants. The detentions are part of what the state described as a broader push to crack down on illegal immigration and improve public safety in Central Florida. Under Florida Governor Ron DeSantis, Florida has led the rest of the nation for 287(g) partnerships with 327 agreements in place — a 577% increase since Jan. 20. This operation is part of the Trump administration’s broader effort to restore public safety in communities across the nation by focusing on the removal of the “worst of the worst” offenders.

ICE worked closely with Polk County Sheriff Grady Judd, Brevard County Sheriff Wayne Ivey, and FHP Director Dave Kerner among other agency leaders with state and local law enforcement partners to identify and apprehend individuals who posed significant threats to public safety in Florida.

“The days of allowing illegal aliens to disregard our laws and pose a threat to our communities, our roads, and our economy are over,” said ICE Enforcement and Removal Operations Miami Field Office Director Garrett Ripa. “Many of these individuals illegally remained in Florida and have gone on to wreak havoc in our local neighborhoods. This weeklong joint 287(g) operation focused on targeting those threats to public safety. This successful operation is a testament to the 287(g) program the great partnerships we have here in the state of Florida. Together, we are making Florida safe!”

The operation underscores the importance of collaboration between federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies in addressing public safety challenges. ICE Miami is committed to enforcing immigration laws in a fair and effective manner.

The individuals arrested during this operation include criminal illegal aliens with criminal records that include driving under the influence, narcotics possession, assault, battery, molestation, domestic violence, prostitution and more. All individuals taken into custody are subject to removal proceedings in accordance with federal immigration law.

Among the criminal aliens arrested were:

Walhter Ramiro Hernandez-Ortiz, an 18-year-old criminal alien from Honduras, was arrested with a criminal record of lewd and lascivious behavior, battery, and molestation of victim under 12 years old.

Juan Carlos Hernandez-Reyes, a 48-year-old criminal illegal alien from Mexico, was arrested and final order reinstated. He has a criminal history that includes domestic violence, driving under the influence, battery, disorderly conduct, and prostitution.

Edgar Rivera-Salinas, a 38-year-old criminal illegal alien from Mexico, who was also previously removed from the United States, was arrested with a criminal history that includes larceny, theft, and marijuana possession.

Efrain Santos-Palacios, a 26-year-old criminal illegal alien from Mexico, entered the country without inspection and was arrested. He has a criminal history that includes driving under the influence, hit and run, and driving without a license.

Pedro Juan Andres, a 29-year-old criminal illegal alien from Guatemala, entered the United States illegally without inspection and was arrested and charged for resisting arrest with violence and burglary.

David Dorantes Martinez, a 47-year-old criminal illegal alien from Mexico with a final order of removal from an immigration judge, was arrested with a criminal history of domestic violence and battery. He was granted a voluntary departure by an immigration judge and failed to leave at his appointed time.

Ubaldino Hernandez-Hernandez, a 41-year-old criminal illegal alien from Mexico, was arrested for being illegally present in the United States. He has a criminal history that includes arrests for hit and run, multiple infractions of operating motor vehicle without valid license, probation violation, and reckless driving.

Aurelio Hernandez-Hernandez, a criminal illegal alien from Mexico, who entered the United States without inspection, has a criminal history that includes driving under the influence and multiple traffic offenses.

Mario Suarez-Maya, a 47-year-old criminal illegal alien from Mexico, has two arrests for driving under the influence, three arrests for driving without a license, and providing a false name to a law enforcement officer. An immigration bond granted to Suarez-Maya has been cancelled on a material change in circumstances due to his arrest by the Florida Highway Patrol.

Yoni Mendez-Lopez, 29-year-old criminal illegal alien from Mexico, he has a criminal history that includes charges for resisting an officer, battery on a law enforcement officer, assault on a law enforcement officer, no valid driver’s license, and attempting to flee to elude a law enforcement officer.

Carlos Roberto Ordonez-Rodriguez, a criminal illegal alien from Honduras, has a criminal record with arrest in two states for traffic violations and a conviction for illegal reentry. He was previously removed by ICE Air Operation in May 2014 out of San Antonio, Texas.

ICE is committed to prioritizing the removal of those who pose the greatest risk to public safety.

For more information about ICE’s enforcement priorities and operations, visit ICE.gov. To learn more about ICE’s mission to combat illegal immigration in the Florida, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands follow us on X at @EROMiami.

Members of the public can report crime and suspicious activity by calling 866-347-2423 or completing the online tip form. Follow us on X at @ICEgovERO to learn more about ERO’s missions and operations.