ICE facility deaths: 2 die in Georgia; Ossoff, Warnock call for investigation | FOX 5 Atlanta Live News Weather Good Day Sports Contests Email More Watch Live Expand / Collapse search ☰ Search site News Local National Politics Health Entertainment FOX 5 Atlanta Mobile Apps FOX News Sunday Call for Action Weather Closings Netcams Savannah Cams FOX 5 Storm Team App Traffic FOX Weather Good Day Atlanta Burgers with Buck Casting Call Follow Paul Pet of the Day Sports Atlanta Braves Atlanta Falcons Atlanta Hawks Atlanta United High 5 Sports World Cup Shows Good Day Atlanta Portia The Pulse The Georgia Gang Behind the Scenes with Paul Milliken Deidra Dukes Reports Burgers with Buck 2nd Helping The Road to November Watch Live What's On FOX TV Schedule About Us How To Stream Seen on TV Contests FOX 5 News Team Contact Us Sign up for Email Alerts Jobs Internships FCC Public File FCC Applications Captioning Election Politics Georgia Politics Election Results Money Personal Finance Economy Business Stock Market Small Business Regional News Tampa News - FOX 13 News Orlando News - FOX 35 Orlando Gainesville News - FOX 51 Gainesville Cold Weather Advisory until TUE 9:00 AM CST, Randolph County, Cleburne County 2 Cold Weather Advisory until TUE 12:00 PM EST, Habersham County, Rabun County, Clay County ICE facility deaths: 2 die in Georgia; Ossoff, Warnock call for investigation By Sam Daniel Published September 23, 2025 2:45pm EDT Immigration FOX 5 Atlanta Share Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Reddit article LUMPKIN, GA - MAY 4: The Stewart Detention Center in Lumpkin, Ga. (Photo by Jonathan Wiggs/The Boston Globe via Getty Images) The Brief Two people have died in Georgia while in Immigration and Customs Enforcement custody this year. One death was ruled a suicide. The coroner is still waiting for the autopsy results in the other. Sen. Ossoff and Warnock sent a letter Tuesday to Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem and ICE Acting Director Todd Lyons calling on the Trump administration to release more information on the Georgia deaths and explain how ICE is addressing in-custody conditions. FOX 5 reached out to ICE and Gov. Kemp's office for comment and hasn't heard back. GEORGIA - Two people have died in Georgia while in Immigration and Customs Enforcement custody this year, prompting U.S. Sens. Jon Ossoff and Raphael Warnock to demand an investigation into the deaths and broader in-custody conditions. ICE-custody deaths in Georgia What we know: According to ICE , the first death occurred May 5. Abelardo Avelleneda-Delgado, 68, a Mexican citizen, became unresponsive while being transported by an ICE contractor to the Stewart Detention Center. EMS was called, but ICE said paramedics did not attempt lifesaving measures after determining Avelleneda-Delgado had no pulse. The Webster County coroner pronounced him dead at 1:25 p.m. The coroner told FOX 5 he is still waiting on an autopsy report from the state crime lab. ICE said Avelleneda-Delgado had illegally entered the U.S. multiple times since the 1990s and had been deported and reentered previously. Between 2005 and 2021, he faced several charges from multiple law enforcement agencies, including simple battery &#x2014; family violence and cruelty to children. He was on probation when he was arrested in April. The second death happened June 7 at the Stewart Detention Center. ICE said Jesus Molina-Veya, 45, also a Mexican citizen, was found with a cloth ligature around his neck. Medical staff cut the cloth and performed CPR before he was taken to a hospital, where he was pronounced dead. The Stewart County coroner ruled the death a suicide by hanging. ICE reported that Molina-Veya, who had entered the U.S. illegally at least four times since the 1990s, had been deported three times and charged with crimes ranging from simple battery to child molestation and false imprisonment. He was arrested in April 2024 for a probation violation in Gwinnett County. National context Big picture view: ICE said 13 in-custody deaths have been reported nationwide this year, up from 11 for all of 2024.&#xA0; The agency said that whenever someone dies in custody, officials notify next of kin, appropriate consulates, DHS and ICE stakeholders, Congress, and the public. A release is posted on the agency&#x2019;s website within two business days. Senators’ letter to Homeland Security Secretary What they're saying: Ossoff and Warnock sent a letter Tuesday to Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem and ICE Acting Director Todd Lyons calling on the Trump administration to release more information on the Georgia deaths and explain how ICE is addressing in-custody conditions. &quot;We write with serious alarm regarding the rise in the number of deaths in U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) custody nationwide. We are especially concerned by the deaths of two individuals in ICE custody in Georgia this year,&quot; the senators wrote. The letter cited past allegations of civil rights and civil liberties violations at Stewart Detention Center, including claims of sexual abuse, medical neglect, solitary confinement, overcrowding, barriers to legal representation, forced labor, and poor food conditions. The senators asked DHS and ICE to respond to 15 specific concerns, including how ICE works to prevent suicides in custody. Republican response The other side: FOX 5 has reached out to ICE and Gov. Brian Kemp&#x2019;s office for comment on the deaths and the senators&#x2019; request for an investigation. The Source: Information in this article came from a release sent by Senators Ossoff and Warnock, a website run by ICE that lists in-custody deaths, and FOX 5’s outreach to Gov. Kemp and ICE. Immigration Georgia Jon Ossoff Raphael Warnock Latest News LIVE UPDATES | ICE in Minnesota: Some federal agents expected to leave as immigration leadership shifts Pedestrian struck on Queen Mill Road early Tuesday, police say Torchy's Tacos shutting down Atlanta spot amid wave of closures Underground fire causes power outages in Midtown Atlanta Monday night How Cobb and Marietta schools are battling the deep freeze The Morning Brief All the news you need to know, every day By clicking Sign Up, I confirm that I have read and agree to the Privacy Policy and Terms of Service . FOX LOCAL Stream FOX 5 Atlanta for free with FOX LOCAL Watch local news, weather, and live events on Roku, Fire TV, and more — just search “FOX LOCAL” News Local National Politics Health Entertainment FOX 5 Atlanta Mobile Apps FOX News Sunday Call for Action Weather Closings Netcams Savannah Cams FOX 5 Storm Team App Traffic FOX Weather Good Day Atlanta Burgers with Buck Casting Call Follow Paul Pet of the Day Sports Atlanta Braves Atlanta Falcons Atlanta Hawks Atlanta United High 5 Sports World Cup Shows Good Day Atlanta Portia The Pulse The Georgia Gang Behind the Scenes with Paul Milliken Deidra Dukes Reports Burgers with Buck 2nd Helping The Road to November Watch Live What's On FOX TV Schedule About Us How To Stream Seen on TV Contests FOX 5 News Team Contact Us Sign up for Email Alerts Jobs Internships FCC Public File FCC Applications Captioning Election Politics Georgia Politics Election Results Money Personal Finance Economy Business Stock Market Small Business Regional News Tampa News - FOX 13 News Orlando News - FOX 35 Orlando Gainesville News - FOX 51 Gainesville youtube facebook twitter instagram email New Privacy Policy Updated Terms of Use Your Privacy Choices FCC Public File FCC Applications EEO Public File About Us Jobs Contact Us This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2026 FOX Television Stations