Title: Law enforcement injure multiple journalists, others assaulted while covering Los Angeles protests
Published: 2025-06-09 16:29:03+00:00

Washington, D.C., June 9, 2025—Law enforcement in Los Angeles, California, shot non-lethal rounds that struck multiple reporters while they covered protests that began on Friday, June 6, and escalated over the weekend following immigration raids. More than 20 others were reported to have been assaulted or obstructed.

President Donald Trump deployed 2,000 National Guard members to the state, against California Governor Gavin Newsom’s and LA Mayor Karen Bass’s wishes.

“We are greatly concerned by the reports of law enforcement officers’ shooting non-lethal rounds at reporters covering protests in Los Angeles. Any attempt to discourage or silence media coverage by intimidating or injuring journalists should not be tolerated,” said CPJ U.S., Canada, and Caribbean Program Coordinator Katherine Jacobsen. “It is incumbent upon authorities to respect the media’s role of documenting issues of public interest.”

Officers shot Ryanne Mena, a crime reporter with the LA Daily News, and freelance reporter Sean Beckner-Carmitchel with pepper balls and tear-gassed them on Friday and Saturday while they reported.

Nick Stern, a British freelance photojournalist based in LA, had emergency surgery after a three-inch plastic bullet struck his leg on Sunday. Stern told the BBC that he was wearing a press card around his neck and carrying his camera when he was shot.

Officers shot Lauren Tomasi, a reporter for Australia’s 9News, in the leg with a rubber bullet as she reported on air Sunday.

Adam Rose, secretary of the Los Angeles Press Club, has documented more than 20 incidents of obstruction and attacks against members of the media since protests began on June 6. CPJ has not independently verified all the incidents listed.

After publication, a Los Angeles Police Department representative told CPJ it will investigate the cases.

CPJ’s emails to the Los Angeles Sheriff’s Department and California National Guard did not receive any immediate replies.

Editor’s note: The alert has been updated with a reply from the Los Angeles Police Department, and to reflect the reflect the scope of assaults on members of the media.