Title: British photographer undergoes surgery after being shot with 'sponge' bullets during LA protests
Authors: Alice Padgett

Protesters help a journalist after an injury during a protest in Compton after federal immigration authorities conducted operations. Picture: Alamy

By Alice Padgett

A British news photographer has undergone emergency surgery after being hit by non-lethal rounds during protests in Los Angeles.

Listen to this article Loading audio...

Nick Stern was documenting a stand-off between anti-Immigration and Customs Enforcement (Ice) protesters and police outside a Home Depot in Paramount, a city in LA county and a location known as a hiring spot for day labourers, when a 14mm "sponge bullet" tore into his thigh. He told the PA news agency: "My initial concern was, were they firing live rounds? "Some of the protesters came and helped me, and they ended up carrying me, and I noticed that there was blood pouring down my leg." He was treated by a medic who urged him to go to hospital. At one point, Mr Stern says he passed out from the pain.

A police officer fires a soft round near the metropolitan detention center of downtown Los Angeles following last night's immigration raid protest. Picture: Alamy

A woman waves the Mexican flag as flames erupt from a burning dumpster during a protest in downtown Los Angeles. Picture: Alamy

The photographer is now recovering at Long Beach Memorial Medical Centre following emergency surgery. Mr Stern, who emigrated to the US in 2007, said he typically makes himself "as visible as possible" while working in hostile situations. "That way you're less likely to get hit because they know you're media," he said. It is the second incident of its kind for Mr Stern, who said he sustained "substantial" bruising after being hit by another live round during the George Floyd protests in 2020.

Protesters face off with CHP officers after they took over the 101 Freeway in Downtown LA. Picture: Alamy

Mr Stern wasn't the only member of the press to be injured as they reported on protests, after Australian journalist Lauren Tomasi was shot with rubber bullet during a live broadcast. A bystander was heard to yell, “You just f****** shot the reporter!” Read More: National Guard troops clash with protesters as Trump vows to 'set Los Angeles free' from 'migrant invaders'

"The communities in LA are very tight and very close-knit," Mr Stern said. "So an outside organisation like Ice coming in and removing - whatever you want to call it, removing, kidnapping, abducting people from the community - is not going to go down well at all." It comes after US President Donald Trump announced plans to deploy 2,000 National Guard troops to California to quell the protests, which began on Friday in downtown LA before spreading.

Officers make their way down a ramp to the 101 Freeway near the metropolitan detention centre of downtown Los Angeles. Picture: Alamy

Nick Stern Photographer in Los Angeles in 2008. Picture: Getty