Title: Anti-ICE protest in Philadelphia leads to 15 arrests, 2 officers injured, police say
Authors: Tom, Digital Content Producer, Cbs Philadelphia, Tom Ignudo Is A Digital Content Producer At Cbs Philadelphia. Before He Joined Cbs Philadelphia In, Tom Covered High School, College Sports For The Philadelphia Inquirer. He Covers Breaking News, Sports, Read Full Bio, Jon

Fifteen people were arrested Tuesday after 150 protesters gathered in Center City to rally against the Trump administration's Immigration and Customs Enforcement operations in Philadelphia, police said.

Police said demonstrators began gathering at 4 p.m. to protest ICE at the Federal Detention Center at 7th and Arch streets. The protest lasted several hours as demonstrators marched to ICE headquarters in Philly, disrupted traffic, and "endangered public safety," according to police.

One of the men arrested was charged with aggravated assault on a police officer, while the 14 others were hit with disorderly conduct offenses.

Police said protesters ignored three commands to disperse at 6:45 p.m., but they continued to block traffic and confronted officers.

At 11th and Market streets, police said officers attempted to arrest demonstrators, but the crowd escalated and became "violent and extremely disorderly." Officers were able to get the crowds under control at 7:45 p.m., police said.

Fifteen people were arrested Tuesday after 150 protesters gathered in Center City to rally against the Trump administration's Immigration and Customs Enforcement operations in Philadelphia, police said. CBS News Philadelphia

Two Philadelphia officers sustained minor injuries and were treated at the hospital, according to police. Two women who were arrested reported injuries and received medical attention, police said.

Police said one Philadelphia police traffic vehicle was vandalized with spray paint during the protest.

Several officers used force when making arrests, police said. Per Philadelphia Police Department policy, the use of force will be reviewed.

"The Philadelphia Police Department supports the public's right to lawful, peaceful protest," PPD said in a statement. "We remain committed to facilitating First Amendment activity while protecting public safety and maintaining order on city streets."

Protests against ICE raids have popped up all over the United States following the protests in Los Angeles that started last Friday and prompted President Trump to mobilize the National Guard and Marines.