Philadelphia ICE protest: 15 arrested, several injured - WHYY
Skip to content
Politics & Policy
Immigration
Philadelphia
Protests
Trump Impact
Philly ICE protest: 15 arrested, several injured after altercation between police, protesters
One witness said a Philadelphia police officer hit a protester “wherever he could” despite the protester not offering any resistance.
Protesters call for an end to deportations outside the Federal Detention Center on Arch Street in Philadelphia on June 10, 2025. (Kimberly Paynter/WHYY)
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Trump Impact
Philly ICE protest: 15 arrested, several injured after altercation between police, protesters
One witness said a Philadelphia police officer hit a protester “wherever he could” despite the protester not offering any resistance.
By
Nick Kariuki
Vida Lashgari
June 11, 2025
Listen
2:07
From Philly and the Pa. suburbs to South Jersey and Delaware, what would you like WHYY News to cover?
Let us know!
Amid
growing nationwide protests
against the
Trump administration
’s mass deportation policies, a Center City demonstration on Tuesday ended with 15 arrests and multiple injuries involving police and protesters.
Around 200 protesters had gathered and blocked traffic outside Philadelphia’s Federal Department of Corrections to protest increasing ICE raids and detainments.
WHYY thanks our sponsors — become a WHYY sponsor
Protesters gather outside the Federal Detention Center at 7th and Arch streets. About 200 participated in the protest, spurred by ICE arrests. (Emma Lee/WHYY)
An altercation ensued at 10th and Market streets as protesters were marching in the street.
The protest was peaceful, witnesses said, until about 50 police officers closed on the marchers on Market Street and moved among them, in an apparent effort to break up the march. As seen in a video shared with WHYY News partner 6abc, a
police officer got into a confrontation with a masked protester
and forcibly restrained him.
Philadelphia police said the marchers were blocking a roadway and endangering public safety, and ordered the marchers to disperse three times before moving in.
WHYY thanks our sponsors — become a WHYY sponsor
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by WHYY (@whyy)
Protesters damage a metal sign outside the Federal Detention Center on Arch Street in Philadelphia on June 10, 2025. (Kimberly Paynter/WHYY)
Tony Reyes had just finished his workday around 6:30 p.m. when he says he saw three police officers using force on a protester.
“They just slammed him into the ground and then they took a baton to him,” Reyes said. “They smashed his face into the ground.”
Reyes said an officer was hitting a protester “wherever he could” despite the protester not offering any resistance, and it continued for several minutes.
When reached by WHYY News, the department said it had no comment.
Related Content
Politics & Policy
What are your rights as an immigrant in Philly? Here’s what to know
No matter what your legal status is, you have certain rights in interactions with law enforcement.
5 months ago
Reyes said police officers kept five protesters handcuffed for 30 minutes before they were taken from the scene.
Police said 14 of those arrested were charged with disorderly conduct; the other was charged with aggravated assault on police.
Four people — two officers and two of those arrested — were treated for minor injuries.
The department confirmed “several officers employed force while making arrests,” adding that ”every use of force has been documented and will undergo a review to ensure compliance with departmental guidelines.”
About 200 protesters block traffic at 7th and Arch streets during evening rush hour to protest recent ICE arrests and deportations. (Emma Lee/WHYY)
Residents Anaya Mcglotten and Makiaya Smith said they were leaving the CVS at the corner of 10th and Market when they saw police officers throwing bikes at protesters. The officers then detained a handful of protesters and lined them up against a nearby building.
“It seemed to me like a humiliation tactic,” Mcglotten said. “These people didn’t do anything. You can’t arrest them because they didn’t do anything wrong. It was a peaceful protest.”
The detainees were then placed in police vehicles after loudly questioning why they were being detained.
A pedestrian clashes with protesters against ICE raids Federal Detention Center on Arch Street in Philadelphia on June 10, 2025. (Kimberly Paynter/WHYY)
The protest was the latest objecting to federal government policies and
actions on immigration
. A day earlier,
Philadelphia labor unions rallied to call for an end to ICE raids
.
On Saturday, June 14, the “No Kings” movement will hold what’s expected to be the largest protest of Trump’s second term, with more than 1,000 events nationwide,
including a “flagship” protest in Philadelphia
.
Destiny Danao of South Philadelphia carries a sign during a protest spurred by recent ICE arrests. ''It's my duty as a citizen to stand up for people who can't, who are afraid to come out.'' (Emma Lee/WHYY)
A 3-year-old girl perched on her father's shoulders covers her ears during a noisy protest outside the Federal Detention Center at 7th and Arch streets. About 200 people gathered to protest the activities of United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement arrests. (Emma Lee/WHYY)
Protesters disrupt traffic on 8th Street during a protest spurred by ICE arrests. (Emma Lee/WHYY)
Protesters call for an end to deportations outside the Federal Detention Center on Arch Street in Philadelphia on June 10, 2025. (Kimberly Paynter/WHYY)
ICE raid protesters stop traffic on 9th Street in Philadelphia on June 10, 2025. (Kimberly Paynter/WHYY)
Get daily updates from WHYY News!
The free WHYY News Daily newsletter delivers the most important local stories to your inbox.
Enter your email here
WHYY thanks our sponsors — become a WHYY sponsor
Share this
Facebook
Twitter
Email
WHYY is your source for fact-based, in-depth journalism and information. As a nonprofit organization, we rely on financial support from readers like you. Please
give today.
Part of the series
Trump Impact
View the series
You may also like
Politics & Policy
Pennsylvania Gov. Shapiro says Trump shouldn’t deploy troops to Philly protests as LA response divides governors
Pennsylvania Gov. Josh Shapiro, in an interview Wednesday in The Washington Post, said Trump should not send troops to a weekend protest scheduled in Philadelphia.
17 hours ago
Politics & Policy
Philadelphia labor unions call for an end to ICE raids nationwide following the arrest of union leader during LA protests
The protest outside Independence Hall follows the arrest of SEIU president David Huerta during protests in Los Angeles over ICE arrests.
4 days ago
Listen
1:43
Politics & Policy
El breve acuerdo de Camden con ICE genera alarma y acción en Delaware
El alcalde de Camden, Larry Dougherty, dice que él no estuvo involucrado directamente en el acuerdo y que no lo vio como un problema importante en ese momento.
3 weeks ago
About Nick Kariuki
Read more
@NKKariuki
nkariuki@whyy.org
Want a digest of WHYY’s programs, events & stories?
Sign up for our weekly newsletter.
Enter your email here
Together we can reach 100% of WHYY’s fiscal year goal
Donate
Learn about WHYY Member benefits
Ways to Donate