Title: State curbs ICE activity around courts on day of another local arrest
Published: 2025-11-17 00:00:00

Connecticut’s legislature passed a bill on Thursday that restricts law enforcement action for civil offenses on courthouse grounds — the same day federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents arrested a man outside the New Haven County Courthouse in downtown New Haven.

The legislation, approved in a two-day special session last week, also prohibits agents from wearing face coverings during courthouse enforcement actions and limits public agencies’ ability to share people’s personal information. The provisions follow months of advocacy by organizers who have called on the state to better protect Connecticut’s immigrant community from President Donald Trump’s mass deportation effort.

Thursday’s arrest marks at least the second time ICE agents, some in face coverings, have detained a person near New Haven’s courthouse downtown in the past month.

“This legislation, upon the governor signing it, will be directly applicable to what we’ve been seeing in New Haven outside of the courts,” Tabitha Sookdeo ENV ’26, executive director of advocacy group Connecticut Students for a Dream, said in a phone interview, adding that questions remain about how far the provision extends beyond the immediate courthouse limits.

On Jan. 21, the Department of Homeland Security issued a directive establishing that “ICE officers or agents may conduct civil immigration enforcement actions in or near courthouses when they have credible information that leads them to believe the targeted alien(s) is or will be present at a specific location.”

The New Haven Independent reported Thursday afternoon that agents wearing Homeland Security Investigations gear arrested a man on the sidewalk outside of the New Haven County Courthouse on Elm Street. Last month, federal agents apprehended a man on the New Haven Green after he left the same courthouse where his domestic violence case was dismissed.

The state bill includes “sidewalks on the grounds of, contiguous to or abutting the grounds of the courthouse” in its definition of “courthouse” locations where arrests and detentions for civil offenses would be limited. The legislation makes exceptions for cases when an individual has been convicted of certain crimes or when law enforcement officers have a judicial warrant to make the arrest.

The bill codifies and expands a policy issued in September by Connecticut Supreme Court Chief Justice Raheem Mullins that blocked arrests without warrants inside state courts.

The new law’s data sharing provision, meanwhile, limits the disclosure of “personal information” to anyone not affiliated with a state agency. “Personal information” includes an individual’s home address, workplace and other information that could indicate where someone is located at a particular day and time.

“We have driver's licenses for undocumented folks. We have HUSKY Medicaid for undocumented children and pregnant moms. We have in-state tuition, financial aid,” Camila Bortolleto, an organizer with the HUSKY 4 Immigrants Coalition, said in a phone interview. “But then what that means is that Connecticut has a lot of data from our community. That data needs to be protected from being used by the federal immigration enforcement.”

The law’s data sharing protections strengthen the state Trust Act — first passed in 2019 and expanded in the regular legislative session earlier this year — in limiting state law enforcement agencies from cooperating with ICE.

Eric Cruz Lopez, organizing director of Connecticut Students for a Dream, said it is difficult to ensure universal compliance with the Trust Act.

“I think one of the big gaps in the Trust Act is just enforcement across the state, because it's a policy that applies to the whole state of Connecticut,” Cruz Lopez said in a phone interview. “The hardest part has been, does every department actually know about it? Do they actually know they're not supposed to do this?”

Last month, organizers protested outside of the Hamden Police Department after officials said they had been given advance notice that Homeland Security Investigations, a branch of ICE, planned to carry out an enforcement action on Dixwell Avenue. In a statement shared with WTNH News 8, the police department said it complied with the Trust Act. Protesters maintained that the police department should have notified community members about the notice, which preceded a raid at a car wash.

Bortolleto said the courthouse and data sharing protections were two of four key demands by immigrant rights activists for the state legislature during its special session. Her coalition had also hoped to see the extension of the state’s Medicaid program to more undocumented immigrants and a protection against federal immigration agents’ use of state and local resources to carry out their operations.

John Jairo Lugo, community organizing director for local immigrant advocacy group Unidad Latina en Acción, said he thinks expanded remote court hearing options would also help to protect immigrant populations.

ULA regularly recruits volunteers to accompany immigrant community members to court dates in order to protect them from courthouse arrests. Lugo said that he thinks the state’s power to guard against ICE arrests remains limited.

“I think it's up to us to start using these court accompaniments, educating ourselves how to identify the ICE agents, create community defense groups,” Lugo said. “That's going to be the answer to try to survive for the next three years.”

Gov. Ned Lamont called last week’s special session to advance these provisions alongside a revised housing omnibus bill, a fund to address limited federal funding under the then-ongoing government shutdown and other legislative goals.

The Connecticut General Assembly held its 2025 regular session from January to June.