Feds Snatch Mom Of 2 Outside Courthouse - New Haven Independent
Skip to content
Home
»
Feds Snatch Mom Of 2 Outside Courthouse
Tentes-Pitiur’s husband (pictured) said he feels “a very strong pain.”
Credit:
Laura Glesby Photo
A photo of ICE arresting Tentes-Pitiur circulated on Reddit.
Credit:
Reddit
(Updated)
Federal immigration officials seized a 24-year-old Fair Haven woman down the street from the Elm Street courthouse on Monday morning.
“This is very painful for me. Like being dead,” her husband said through tears on Tuesday night.
A law enforcement official familiar with the arrest confirmed Tuesday that federal officers had taken the woman — an Ecuadorian immigrant and mother of two named Gladys Samanta Tentes-Pitiur — into custody on Monday morning.
She had been
scheduled for a court hearing for her ongoing criminal case stemming from a May arrest on one felony count of risk of injury to a child. She has yet to enter a plea, and had been released on a $10,000 bond.
According to her husband, who wished to remain anonymous, Tentes-Pitiur had
been arrested by city police after leaving their five-year-old child alone in their
Fair Haven house while she brought their six-year-old child to school
about five blocks away. According to the husband, the five-year-old was
sleeping inside the house when she left — but he woke up and began to
play with a bicycle outside. He said that police came and arrested the
woman when she came back from bringing her older child to school.
The husband said that he works as a day laborer, seeking out work at a
nearby Home Depot. He said his wife stayed at home with the kids.
When asked about the husband’s recounting of the arrest, Police Chief
Karl Jacobson wrote in a text message, “I believe it was more than
that. I know she was arrested for risk of injury more than once, but I
don’t have any official records related to it.”
There was no warrant associated with the case, as police arrested Tentes-Pitiur immediately, and the New Haven Police Department did not provide a
police report in time for this article.
Update:
On Wednesday afternoon, Department of Homeland Security Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs Tricia McLaughlin emailed a statement to the Independent, confirming that ICE arrested Tentes-Pitiur in New Haven on Monday.
McLaughlin wrote that Tentes-Pitiur entered the country on Nov. 24, 2023. She highlighted Tentes-Pitiur’s arrest and referred to her as a “criminal illegal alien” (the Independent could not find record of a crime for which Tentes-Pitiur has been convicted).
McLaughlin also criticized New Haven Police, stating: “Instead of turning her over to ICE, local police released her back into American communities.” Per local department policy and the city’s “Welcoming City” executive order, New Haven police limit their cooperation with federal immigration officials.
“She Is Not OK”
Gladys Samanta Tentes-Pitiur, 24, left her 5-year-old child at home while taking her 6-year-old child to school, according to her husband as well as a police report.
Credit:
Contributed
According to the husband, Tentes-Pitiur’s most recent court date had to be
rescheduled after she needed emergency surgery removing her gall
bladder.
The new court date had been rescheduled for Monday at 10 a.m. The
husband recalled driving his wife to the Elm Street courthouse. He said
he dropped her off nearby, then drove no more than two traffic lights
away while looking for parking.
Within those few minutes, three federal agents cornered Tentes-Pitiur down the block from the Elm Street courthouse, outside the New Haven
Free Public Library’s Ives Branch.
At least one of the officers wore a uniform associated with ATF — the
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, an agency that has
been collaborating with Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE).
In the next several hours, an anonymous witness posted on
Reddit
a photograph of the federal agents appearing to arrest the woman. The image circulated among immigrant rights activists.
“We need to start organizing the people,” said John Jairo Lugo, an activist with Unidad Latina en Acción. “They are kidnapping people.” He said he hopes to spread the word about a local hotline — (475) 323-9413 — that witnesses can call to inform neighbors about ICE activity in the city.
As the photograph garnered attention online, the husband received a call from his wife. “She is not OK. She was
crying,” he said in Spanish during an interview with the Independent Tuesday. He believes she was first brought to
Hartford.
The next day, he heard from her again. She called him from an
unfamiliar number with a Massachusetts area code, which led to a dull
beeping sound when he tried to call her back. He recalled her saying
that she didn’t know where she was; she said that agents had driven her
five hours away and that they were three hours away from where she would
ultimately be held in custody.
He said he doesn’t know if she has the medication she needs for her recovery from gall bladder surgery.
He said he explained the situation to their two kids. The oldest one
is particularly heartbroken, but he tries to reassure them that she’ll
be all right. The kids have been playing with their cousins, he said, to
keep them distracted.
This isn’t the first time federal immigration officials have arrested a New Haven mom in recent weeks. Click
here
to read about ski-masked ICE agents boxing in and taking away another mom, 37-year-old Nancy Martinez, in front of her two kids in the Hill.
From Ecuador To New Haven
The couple had known each other for about a decade, according to Tentes-Pitiur’s husband. They met in their home country of Ecuador. He said he has been
in New Haven for about two years, while his wife has been here for over a
year.
He said they left Ecuador, with the goal of seeking asylum, due to
persecution partly related to the fact that their family is part of the
Shuar Indigenous people. The husband said they fled after being
threatened and fearing for their safety.
“I don’t want her to be deported,” he said. “We are people who are discriminated against.”
It took the husband four months to walk across five countries —
through Colombia, Panama, Nicaragua, Guatemala, and Mexico — until
finally reaching the United States.
His wife followed him with their two kids in tow. On their way
through Mexico, the husband said, the trio was kidnapped by a criminal
group seeking to extort the family for money, an increasingly common
occurrence targeting migrants traveling through Mexico.
The kidnappers held Tentes-Pitiur and her kids in a vacant house, the
husband said. “They tortured me psychologically,” he said, crying as he
recalled how the kidnappers sought a ransom he wasn’t able to pay.
Eventually, he said, his wife was able to escape with their kids through
a hole in the house. She found help at a nearby house, where a neighbor drove her and her two kids to the bus station on a single motorbike, he
said. She continued the journey to New Haven from there.
“I want to be together with her here,” he said.
Norma Rodríguez Reyes and Everangelys Viruet contributed to this report.
Related
79 replies on “Feds Snatch Mom Of 2 Outside Courthouse”
I’d like to correct the headline: Federal officers carried out a lawful arrest of a immigrant woman from Ecuador for unknown charges. John Lugo jumps up and said ” They are kidnapping people” Really!! A federal officer arrests someone and this clown says they are kidnapping people!! Anyway, lets step back in time (2009) and President Obama’s ICE agents raided a clothing company in L.A. where they found 1,600 illegal immigrants out of 1,800 employee’s who were unauthorized to work. It was the largest immigration raid in U.S. history and low and behold, Not A Peep. So always remember folks and John Lugo, ICE is not breaking a single law, but executing the law passed by Congress and signed into law by both Democrats and Republicans.
Sickening, outrageous, heartbreaking. What is this country becoming? Why are we tolerating this?
The ATF shouldn’t exist.  But I would rather see them arresting people who commit crimes against children  than Americans who exercise a constitutional right.
@It’s Just Me: As usual with people who try to justify this our country’s current slide into brutal authoritarianism, you are playing fast and loose with the facts. Anyone can google “American Apparel immigration 2009” and discover just how badly you’ve distorted that story — including the fact that there was, in fact, a huge outcry against those firings (note that there was no “raid” — indeed, one of the first results you’ll find is an article titled “Not An Immigration Raid”.)
In short, the US was not helped by the Obama Administration’s actions in the American Apparel incident, but the Trump Administration’s much more brutal reign of terror, which has now complete unnecessarily separated two mothers from their children here in New Haven in as many months, is much, much worse for our national well-being. If this continues, it will tear this country apart at the seams.
This is another terrible instance of a pattern playing out across the country — we can’t pretend we’re safe here in New Haven just because we’re far from places like LA that are in the focus of national news. My hope is that Gladys is released and swiftly reunited with her family, and that the rest of us stand up against the regime that has just massively increased ICE’s budget.
Meanwhile, it’s telling that existing urban injustices — designing our streets so that it’s criminally unsafe for a five-year-old to play outside unsupervised, setting up childcare so that it takes the whole family to do one child’s dropoff — are being weaponized against the most vulnerable members of our community. I also have a five-year-old who is obsessed with riding her bike, and I am constantly navigating the twin fears of severe injury or death due to roads that don’t sufficiently protect people outside cars (just this morning, I saw the aftermath of a car collision that crossed over the sidewalk into someone’s yard, just two blocks from my house in a calm residential neighborhood!) and the possibility that I could be arrested for endangering my daughter by trying to teach her responsibility and independence. We need to be creating safer spaces for our children, both for their own protection and for the protection of parents more vulnerable than I am.
I can’t help but point out that Tentes-Pitiur has been accused of leaving her child without the supervision they need, and the pre-trial federally-inflicted punishment is to separate her from her family? It’s not supposed to make sense, it’s supposed to make the abuse she endures here equal to the abuse she and her family fled in their home country, to discourage others from trying to seek a better life. I would like my country to get off this race to the bottom.
@Fitzy14: The “crime against children” committed here was the kidnapping of a mother and disappearing her into the immigration gulag.
Ice did not seize a Fair Haven woman. It detained an Ecuadorian female criminal.  With the multiple arrests that NH’s Police Chief knows of, this woman is going to be deported.  The father should immediately bring the woman’s medicine to her. Then he and his children can get free airfare and $1,000 each to self deport to keep the family together.  Yale should offer to educate the children for free when they are of college age. With Yale degrees the kids will be able to support their parents very well.  Yale should definitely step up for these kids
@it’s just me: we literally peeped so hard about Obama’s immigration policies we straight up nicknamed him “the deporter-in-chief” so I really don’t know what your on about. Also democide in all forms is more or less always legal that’s how it works a government wants to do something vile they just write new laws. slavery segregation and the Holocaust were literally all “lawful” undertakings and murdering  a million people in Iraq on a false pretext was cosigned by both Democrats and Republicans that doesn’t make it not mass murder on a false pretext
rsnh2010,
Apparently, you are at the point where you defend people who put the safety of children at risk over those who enforce the law.
@HerbZ: “Ice did not seize a Fair Haven woman. It detained an Ecuadorian female criminal.”
Nice, redefining our neighbors as The Other in order to dehumanize them and justify mistreating them.
Also, she has not been convicted of anything, so calling her a criminal is technically libel. While, ironically, it would not be libelous for me to call Donald Trump a criminal.
“The father should immediately bring the woman’s medicine to her.”
Nice, so it’s not the government’s responsibility to keep detainees alive? More dehumanization. Also, as pointed out in the article, her husband has no idea where she is.
“Then he and his children can get free airfare and $1,000 each to self deport to keep the family together.”
I know that the Trump Administration has promised this to “self-deporters”, but so far, the only evidence that they’re actually following through has been one show-flight of a group of 64 who allegedly took the offer. But honestly, why should anyone believe anything that this administration promises or claims?
“Yale should offer to educate the children for free when they are of college age. With Yale degrees the kids will be able to support their parents very well. Yale should definitely step up for these kids”
Your flippant and callous tone here pairs well with the cruel and destructive policies that you support.
@HerbZ As of yet, you still need to be convicted guilty of a crime in this country and are presumed innocent until otherwise. So it’s premature to call this mom a “criminal,” although you could include that word in your headline: “Convicted criminal directs ICE to carry out family separation policies.”
An aside: as described above, I don’t think she’d even be found guilty of a crime. Putting a child in a scenario where they might possibly be injured isn’t a crime, the felony statute states “likely to be injured.” But, Neighbors of New Haven, one of you did so much more harm to this child by calling the cops on their mom than you ever intended. Can’t we just, you know, be good neighbors and keep an eye out for one another? If you see one of your little neighbors and you think they might need help, please, see what help you can provide before engaging the police.
The whole story from the husband is fishy. Why was he left and she taken? What was the first arrest all about?  The whole story of their reason to leave Ecuador is fishy  but it sure brings the clicks.Talk about profiting off the misery of others.
ICE is doing their job , as are the NH Police.  This couple is in the wrong entering the US  illegally  and that’s allthere is to it.
@Fitzy… The “crime” she allegedly committed was leaving her five-year old alone while she took her six-year old to school and you think that, for that, her children should be left with no mother?
If she wasn’t one of “those people” but was instead a White Anglo, would your opinion be the same?
The 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act (IRCA) granted legal status to nearly 3 million illegal/undocumented immigrants, creating a belief that large-scale legalization was possible under the right political circumstances. Given the deep separation between the USA political philosophies, granting large-scale legalization for 11, 15, or 25 million+ illegal/undocumented immigrants was never realistic. Seriously, how was the continually politically unresolved situation of such a massive number of noncitizens supposed to find closure?
I cannot support, justify or contribute to this type of activity.
Masked immigration officers, snatch and grab a mother from her family.  I don’t recognize our new American.
It is one thing to do this to a murder or someone who is guilty of an awful crime, But they are purposely doing to some who is in the middle of her due process just to prove that they can. Low Hanging Fruit.
I agree that deportations should be an option however not at the expense of due process.
This appears to be the lawful detainer of a criminal illegal alien and the article has identified three other illegal aliens-the husband and the two children. The claimed asylum interestingly never came up until faced with enforcement. Moreover, the Shuar have a long history of fighting back against the government and have won recognition and status with the Ecuadorean government. Many Shuar serve in the Ecuadorean military based on their warrior culture. She was breaking the law. As is the balance of the family. You would not expect to remain in. Ecuador and live on the coast once your visa expired.
@Curator—  Whoever breaks a law should be prosecuted….  is that clear enough? Stop playing the race card. Nobody believes it in 2025; except maybe you and your  woke Marxist leaning friends.
There are many passionate comments; however, no one seems to know what her arrest warrant was for. Does anyone know what she was charged with?
I was serious about Yale stepping up to help these children once they are college age.  Yale currently has international students from Ecuador, Columbia, Brazil, Mexico, Peru, and Venezuela.
Curator,
Do you think some people are above the law? You can use Google and find numerous examples of American citizens of all races and from all different jurisdictions being arrested for leaving kids alone. The parent is typically charged with risk of injury to.a minor. It happens everyday in CT. If the parent happens to be here illegally, there are consequences from immigration.  It seems like you are making this a race issue,when it’s an immigration issue.
@Fitzy14: Apparently, you are at the point where you defend secret police seizing a mom with two small children off of the street, when she has been convicted of no crime.
@CityYankee2: “that’s all there is to it”? Two small children have been separated from their mother. She has health issues and is probably being denied medication. Her husband has no idea where she is. People who suffered terribly in their homeland, and endured terrible hardships to make to The Land of the Free, are suffering even more now, needlessly. Yet to you, a civil violation of immigration statutes, enacted by the descendants of people who stole this land by force in order to slam the door shut behind them, is “all there is to it”. Do you have a bowl of scented water to wash your hands in?
Whoever breaks a law should be prosecuted…. is that clear enough?
Man, City Yankee you crack me up, how about we start with the White House and Florida ??
But that’s ok, I get it… you want to live in a world where everyone else is ruled by fear and intimidation.
I’m sure once martial law is established nationwide you will finally post some positive comments for a change.
Does anybody else notice a common theme where ICE only goes after easy targets, like in this case in example ??
Where are all the murderers, the worst of the worst, as King Donnie proclaimed would be taken away by ICE ??
All is see is vulnerable people who have made mistakes being taken away.
Vulnerable people just trying to live.
Vulnerable people showing up for their court dates to get their immigration status in order.
Let he who is without sin cast the first stone.
rsnh2010
They aren’t secret police. They are wearing patches that identify themselves.
I think it is heartbreaking to have supposed immigration officials, (who knows who they are if they don’t show their badges and are wearing no identifying clothing,) where we don’t even know if there is a judicial warrant for the person, and they grab a parent off the steps of the courthouse when they were showing up at court for defending themselves in a hearing on a charge of leaving a child at home while they walked a few blocks away to drop another child off at school.
And to not know where she was taken, not have access to a lawyer, not have the medicine and medical care she needs for post op for surgery, and no way of knowing where she will be taken or how long she will be held there.
Everyone is innocent until proven guilty in a court of law with legal representation.
Immigration without proper documentation is a civil infraction, not a criminal one.
And due process is a civil right.
There is a right way and a wrong way to handle immigration and this is not the right way.
It infuriates me when people are showing up for court hearings, especially immigration hearings to try to gain legal status, and they are being detained by masked, unidentified persons in unmarked vehicles without showing the legal documentation permitting them to detain someone as required by law. This will cause undocumented to avoid appearing in court for fear of being abducted and put into detention camps, deported to third party countries they have never been to, or prisons in those countries.
All because they came to America under terrible conditions to try to escape dangerous and awful conditions in their country of origin, and they wanted to pursue the American Dream, and they happen to have black or brown skin and speak another language besides English.
This is un-American.
people who walked through hell to be in this country deserve their place here
Lots if folks clearly still confused (or pretending to be confused) about the difference between “accused of” and “convicted of,” and by extension the meaning of the word “criminal.”
Also seems pretty… ironic? perverse? stupid??… that ICE would permanently remove a mother from her children for the (alleged) crime of briefly leaving her children alone. We have a reality TV administration and it shows.
Repurpose ICE jails for remedial civics reeducation camps and we’ll see just how quickly aging white xenophobes re learn Constitutional rights.
@concerned_neighbor: “criminal illegal alien”? She has not been convicted of anything.
@Fitzy14: “Do you think some people are above the law?” Apparently, some are! For instance, you can be convicted of multiple serious felonies and be relaxing in the White House instead of languishing in jail. Meanwhile, thanks to these “law enforcement” activities in our town, two mothers of a certain ethnicity and income level are in jail indefinitely, separated from their young children, with no judicial review, despite having been convicted of no crime.
Also, apparently people who beat police officers with metal poles are above the law — as long they’re white MAGA people.
There are limited and difficult paths for some illegal immigrants to become U.S. citizens, but, for the vast majority, current law makes it extremely difficult or impossible. Most illegal immigrants cannot realistically achieve the “American Dream” as it is most often defined, especially when citizenship is considered essential to that dream. What seems to be all too “American” is to tacitly allow millions of illegal/undocumented immigrants to enter the country, with no clear or realistic promised path towards legally being allowed to remain. Those who helped create a false sense of security by declaring artificial places of safety, like sanctuary cities, knowing full well that the US was always so deeply divided on this issue, are at least partly to blame for what is happening now. You can’t dangle the promise of achieving the “American Dream” without a realistic way of securing it. Sounds like what the “Coyotes”, the human smugglers who bring migrants across the U.S. border, and are notorious for making false promises to attract clients, might say.
Ethan,
Is the Government able to arrest and deport people who are here illegally if they haven’t committed a crime ?
“He said they left Ecuador, with the goal of seeking asylum, due to persecution partly related to the fact that their family is part of the Shuar Indigenous people. The husband said they fled after being threatened and fearing for their safety.”
Would like to point out that it is legal to seek asylum in the United States and given the facts presented, there’s no reason to assume that this woman is in the country “illegally.”
Does the family have a pending asylum case? You’d think that would be the 1st thing they did upon arrival if they are in danger in Ecuador.
Fizty, you are still making the claim that they are here illegally, but that’s not a claim the article makes. ICE is detaining legal immigrants (yes, that is still a thing, and not just for white South Africans!) and even a disturbingly increasing number of American citizens. Please stop making straw man arguments and abide by the Comment Policy’s restriction against false accusations of criminality.
The most recent data from 2024 indicates that approximately only 19.7% of Ecuadorian immigrants who apply for asylum in the United States are granted asylum.
https://tracreports.org/reports/751
Did they actually apply for asylum, and/or is their case currently under review?
@Fitzy14: The patches visible in the photo say “Police” and “ATF Police”. Why would the ATF be involved in immigration arrests? Why, in so many other cases that have been documented in the press, are the alleged government agents wearing no insignia or badges of any kind, or just wearing generic “Police” patches? (And in many of those cases, it has later been confirmed that these people were not, in fact, police officers, but rather ICE agents.)
Ambiguously uniformed, un-badged, and often face-masked individuals accosting people (who, I once again point out, have not been convicted of any crime) in the street, handcuffing them, and hustling them off in unmarked vehicles to undisclosed locations are 100% police-state, secret-police tactics. This behavior has no place in a free society with a Bill of Rights.
hey, it’s one thing to come here illegally and try to exist as undocumented, so there’s that. they knowingly did just that.
It’s completely different to be here undocumented and get mixed up with the law, especially knowing the majority of the country, including the lawmen and the executive branch are not happily looking the other way. worse even is it’s something dumb like leaving a child alone in a house and they end up playing in the street.
we treat people just the same or worse for leaving kids in hot cars. just think of PETA’s reaction if the kid was a dog…
life is generally made on personal decisions, and we all live with them, good or bad.
So many times over the last six months, I have thought about the way my father (a lawyer, then a judge) raised me to respect above all the mantra of innocent until proven guilty. But even setting that consideration aside, it boggles my mind how anyone can not see the inhumanity of treating people this way.
The punishment for her crime, IF SHE WERE TO BE PROPERLY CONVICTED (which she HAS NOT BEEN), is not to have her medical care compromised by abducting her without her necessary post-surgery medication. We don’t have that punishment enshrined in law.
The punishment for her crime (WERE SHE TO BE CONVICTED) is not exile from the country, because we don’t have that punishment. Not since we got rid of the last king. It is the kind of barbarity that belongs to times of royalty lording their “divine right” to do as they pleased.
A woman attempting to comply with court orders, innocent under the law, fleeing torture and now facing that again at the hands of the country that she thought would be a haven.
We don’t deserve the name of our city if we do not rise up to support her.
@MrHinkyDink: “life is generally made on personal decisions, and we all live with them, good or bad.”
I hear Republicans say things like this all the time about their allegedly firm belief in “personal responsibility”: “Actions have consequences!”, they say. “Play stupid games, win stupid prizes!”.
… and yet, these flippant slogans only seem to get applied to the poor, powerless, and non-white. When people like Trump, Hegseth, Kavanaugh, and dog-executioner Noem do terrible things and face no consequences at all, their political supporters seem to feel that’s just fine, and even take offense at the suggestion that they should pay for their crimes. Quite a double standard.
AMERICA on these days when we celebrate another Independence Day can we really be proud of ourselves for these kinds of actions in all good conscience? I think not, and I am ashamed and my conscienceless is seriously wounded by these unnecessary actions. Lord please help us not to be a cruel people or Nation, Amen.
This is simply heartbreaking. It is happening thousands of times across the country with similar stories. We criminalize poor people, especially people of color and migrants to maintain an unjust status quo. If the pending criminal charge is for leaving a child alone we have a system that makes childcare unaffordable and unavailable to blame.
I have my own thoughts on borders and statehood but especially with folks from South America, US foreign policy has so much responsibility for destabilizing conditions that create the incentive to migrate. We should have a responsibility to folks that make it here. Coming from Ecuador means they most likely crossed the Darien Gap, a wild and deadly stretch of jungle in search of a better life and many of their neighbors in this comments section only want to see harm come to her family as a result.
@HerbZ You are so right on. I am still baffled by all the uproar over illegal immigrants being lawfully detained especially if they committed a crime. This administration is trying to make up for decades of no action. It’s nothing more than the government of the greatest nation on earth doing what it should have been doing for the past 50 years. The media keeps showing images of crying children as if the mother has been sent to a concentration camp. I’m sure there are plenty of convenient flights available for her family to head to Ecuador so they can stay together. Because that’s what America is all about, Togetherness.
@rsnh2010 I don’t know where you are getting your information from. The latest conservative estimates are 750,000 – 1,000,000 have taken the government’s offer to self deport.
@Daniel Allen Of course she’s guilty of a crime. She is in this country illegally, grounds for arrest and removal.
@rsnh2010 – you seem to paint with a broad brush. bigots do that too.
as I recall, it was Obama who  famously said “elections have consequences”, so…
and by the way, I am a proud, registered Democrat
@Toadster: “I am still baffled by all the uproar over illegal immigrants being lawfully detained”
If you’re baffled by the uproar over these last two kidnappings here in New Haven, then I am baffled by you. Anyone with any decency would be outraged to see mothers with young children snatched off of the street and incarcerated, without the benefit of judicial review, hundreds or thousands of miles away from their families.
… unless you’re just being disingenuous. Then I’m not baffled by you, I’m just weary and disgusted.
“… especially if they committed a crime.”
Neither of the two women kidnapped over the past two months here in New Haven were convicted of any crimes. Neither was the high school senior from Waterbury who was taken last month.
“the greatest nation on earth”
Turning into a police state is not a generally-accepted prerequisite for greatness.
“The latest conservative estimates are 750,000 – 1,000,000 have taken the government’s offer to self deport.” — Share your sources. I can find no reports of anyone taking the “$1000 + free airfare” offer except for one report of one planeload — and that itself was just a claim by the government, not independently verified by checking with the passengers or their families, as far as I can tell.
“Of course she’s guilty of a crime. She is in this country illegally” — You really shouldn’t be commenting on immigration at all if you don’t know the most basic facts about it. Being in the US without a proper visa, relevant court order, etc. is very much not a crime. It is a civil violation. Yes, you can lawfully be removed from the country for this civil violation, but it’s still not a crime.
@MrHinkyDink – Really, a “proud, registered Democrat” who expresses support for police-state tactics and no empathy for refugees, and accuses someone who calls out hypocritical, class-based “actions have consequences” rhetoric of bigotry? Which current Democratic Party officeholders would back you up on all of that?
@Fitzy14
“They aren’t secret police. They are wearing patches that identify themselves.”
“Patches.” Yeah, okay.
https://www.amazon.com/DAMORR-Embroidered-Patches-Tactical-Uniforms/dp/B0CY5M75QV/ref=sr_1_17?crid=1J72V3EB9FD7O&dib=eyJ2IjoiMSJ9.dYgfIABWDyinJ7hLaJI_FCRFLr5y1aFNum674o7l3vVjiF-_rD7YeEOvaexx0PUEDNO9CCpRUSTRknhUZDw_ztXi6XWyDKTPrWOVYI2YrSZBmS6C2O6AF6fKK6dbtV6cYr3dc55r8X4XwWnEDZU_eMG5nGVnEzpxSiUf-gRGIdGVlTFoG9fx2JssiMxWDPr-9VVHnIoRQikdF61DW8-7x_M2zXQRtjHTDFw4LJOCoBm42TK_BHByk3hyN56L8xJ76eNDAH9LsTxaFeo6vN2dcsLHbb3XTXGDkmBmiBZBqK0.HF-17JpEpzjU0NLu5akv35y-Eua3kXyXrI5_tx8eHJ4&dib_tag=se&keywords=police+patches&qid=1752142126&sprefix=police+patches%2Caps%2C121&sr=8-17
“Whoever breaks a law should be prosecuted…. is that clear enough? Stop playing the race card. Nobody believes it in 2025; except maybe you and your woke Marxist leaning friends.”
lol. Okay, buddy. Tell that to the president (convicted of 34 felonies). Oh, but wait: those weren’t real crimes. Okay, tell that to the more than 1,600 people he pardoned for categorically criminal activities, like beating *actual police officers,* on his instigation.
It’s such a great feeling to know that this country is finally headed down the right path. I’m already sleeping better at night, my overall health is improving. God bless America.
… meanwhile, in Washington DC, the oligarchs who are running this campaign to inflict terror and suffering on impoverished, struggling refugees and migrants are noshing on caviar and “lamb lollipops” while selling access to themselves for $500,000 a pop. From today’s Wall Street Journal:
“Guests scooped caviar, noshed on lamb lollipops and sipped top-shelf Champagne on a recent Friday at the grand opening of Executive Branch, a new club that President Trump’s son and close friends started in Washington that costs up to $500,000 to join.
There was David Sacks, the administration’s unpaid cryptocurrency czar, who had been privately touting the club to associates. Some cabinet members came as guests, including Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent and Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem. (Her aide Corey Lewandowski was there, too.) Donald Trump Jr. and senior administration officials mingled in the cavernous space near the Georgetown waterfront.”
One day in May, the father was at work, and the youngest child was home sleeping. When the mother took the older child to school – five blocks away – the youngest child got up and took his bicycle outside. The police arrested the mother when she returned from the school for risk of injury to a minor.
In July, the mother went to court; her husband dropped her off and went to park the car. Federal agents abducted the mother in front of the courthouse. The mother was never convicted of any crime, never got her day in court.
Now the children will have no supervision unless their father quits working. If the father quits working, how will they pay for food and rent? A hardworking man has lost his wife, two children have lost their mother, an innocent woman (remember innocent until proven guilty) never got her day in court, lost her home and family, doesn’t have her medication. Have the illegal actions of these federal agents made our city a better, safer place?
@ rsnh2010: A refugee is someone who has been forced to flee their home country due to a well-founded fear of persecution, war, violence, or human rights violations. The term is distinct from “migrant,” which generally refers to someone who moves for economic reasons or other purposes, not necessarily due to persecution. You refer to these individuals who are the primary focus of this article as “refugees.” Do we know for a fact that they are refugees? Are we only supposed to take this gentleman’s word that they left Ecuador because of persecution? Isn’t it entirely plausible that they left Ecuador for fundamental economic reasons? The  “persecution” procedure will grant you a hearing (Asylum) to be allowed to remain in the US; using the “better economic” method will not. There is very little information available about this couple’s immigration status.
@rsnh2010 – it really bothers you that there are moderate, centrist Democrats still around that follow and appreciate the law, huh?  Well, I’d suppose you didn’t leave the Democrat party, you just moved so far to the left that you’ve got no other party to align with.
@ElvinTapper: Why should we not believe them? Would you prefer to believe the government’s side of the story? This administration is not particularly known for its strict adherence to the truth.
@MrHinkyDink: “it really bothers you that there are moderate, centrist Democrats still around that follow and appreciate the law, huh?” — it doesn’t “bother” me as much as it triggers my skepticism. Again, I don’t think you can name a single Democratic elected official who would back you up on your take on this particular case, or your opinions on undocumented immigrants in general. On the other hand, virtually every elected Republican official (outside of the Northeast, anyway) would ardently agree with you.
And looking at your other comments on this site, I am unable to find a single one that isn’t fully aligned with Republicanism, and diametrically opposed to Democratic Party policies. You are free to label yourself anyway you want, but calling yourself a Democrat is logically inconsistent with your stated opinions. I would be interested to hear you name a single elected Democrat whom you consider to be aligned with your beliefs — while I think anyone with even a passing familiarity with American politics could begin to recite a nearly endless list of Republican officials who share your opinions.
@rsnh2010  Don’t forget the bacon wrapped scallops and crab cakes.
William,  Ms Tentes-Pitiur has been in contact with her family from a jail, so the cops in the picture are real.  Maybe We can both agree that the ATF shouldn’t exist at all, but I’m betting you love the ATF when they arrest American citizens for paperwork errors and shoot citizens in their own homes for selling firearms.
I figure we have less than 2 months of these immigration stories being covered by the news media. They will turn their attention to something else. There might be a BLM riot on a Carnival Cruise ship, Israel will step up the bombing of Gaza, Zelenskyy will be back in Washington begging for money or perhaps a wildfire in California they can blame on global warming. Whatever it may be, the ICE raid coverage is slowly going to fade away.
As stated previously, the most recent data from 2024 indicates that approximately only 19.7% of Ecuadorian immigrants who apply for asylum in the United States are granted asylum. This data has been consistently at the same level of denials of asylum for Ecuadorians going back several years, well prior to Trump.
https://tracreports.org/reports/751
The way I interpret this data is that the majority of Ecuadorians who apply for asylum are denied because they do not meet the US criteria for asylum. Denied why? Typically, to be granted asylum, applicants must demonstrate a well-founded fear of persecution based on one of the five protected grounds: race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group, or political opinion. Many Ecuadorians fleeing violence, especially gang violence, extortion, and general insecurity, do not demonstrate that their fear is due to one of these protected grounds rather than generalized violence, economic hardship, and insufficient evidence. Based on the info presented in the NHI article, this gentleman’s story appears thin and typical of one who may have been a victim of violence in Ecuador, but not one who may be granted legal status in the US. I believe in legal immigration, legal asylum, and that our system of immigration needs to change drastically. However, given the information presented in this article, I remain unconvinced by this man’s story. Ask yourself, what else could this individual say and still have any hopes of remaining in the US?
” I’m betting you love the ATF when they arrest American citizens for paperwork errors and shoot citizens in their own homes for selling firearms.”
C’mon. Are we talking about the guy in Arkansas last year who was–allegedly, at least–selling guns without a license and opened fire on federal cops serving a warrant? Let me ask you this: what shape would this conversation having if Gladys Samanta Tentes-Pitiur or her husband had started shooting at some masked guys in sneakers and jeans accosting her on the street?
No, I don’t love it when police use violence, especially when someone is killed. I do, however, believe that unlicensed gun sellers who are following no protocols represent a greater danger to public safety than undocumented migrants.
Fitzy,
I like the ATF when they do things that demonstrably, provably, dare I say obviously help to reduce the obscene levels of violence in this country — like taking illegal guns off the street and arresting repeat gun traffickers. I don’t like the ATF when they help ICE arrest young mothers dutifully showing up for their court dates.
Who is even going to show up for court dates anymore when their prize is that they get jailed indefinitely before their case even gets heard? Great news, anyone can now follow Trump’s cue and accuse undocumented immigrants of all manner of made-up crimes with no repercussions because they will be whisked away before they get their day in court.
So Constitutional. Much freedom. Country more great(er) (again).
@Toadster: “the ICE raid coverage is slowly going to fade away”. No, there is no way that decent Americans will allow police-state tactics to become the new normal. We, the MAJORITY who disapprove of these actions, will continue to raise hell about it until it stops.
@ ElvinTapper: “I remain unconvinced by this man’s story.” So what? Even if the government’s version is the truth, how does it help our society in any way to seize a mother with two young children, who has not been convicted of any crime, and disappear her into a brutal and unaccountable immigration-detention system, without recourse to judicial review? That’s not “immigration enforcement”, that’s a police state — EVEN IF the government has reason to believe that she’s legally eligible for deportation. There is no need to deport every person in the country whose status is questionable, and attempting to do so is massively unjust, and will tear this country apart.
@rsnh2010 You are sadly mistaken my friend. The MAJORITY put Trump back in the White House. That same MAJORITY approves 100 percent of the immigration policies being implemented. I get a warm fuzzy feeling every time I think about this.
May I remind everyone, that when I was 5 and 6 years old in the 1970’s when all our schools were neighborhood schools, all of us students walked alone or with other students to school. My parent walked me to the bus stop for kindergarten the first week, when we lived in the suburbs, but then she left me walk to the bus stop and cross the streets myself, which is what the whole neighborhood did,
And for first grade when we moved to the city, again she and other parents walked us to school the first week or so, and after that we walked on our own or with other students.
Because our parents worked or had to stay home with younger children,
That was normal and not illegal until sometime around the 1980’s or so, when laws started to change as to how old you had to be before you could be allowed to be on your own, without an adult or older teenager supervising you.
I took the city bus every week from Westville to the other of Howe St and Whalley Ave and then walked to the YWCA when I was 8, as did my friends who ranged in ages 6 on up, because our parents worked or had younger children at home.
Things may have changed, and laws changed, but this was not the law a generation ago, nor is it a law now in many other counties,
@Toadster — Republican Math: where 49.8% (only 1.5% more than Harris) is a “majority”, and the latest polls showing that more than 50% of the public disapproves of Trump’s immigration jihad, and of his presidency in general, is a “minority”.
Also, that “warm fuzzy feeling” that you describe is better known as “sadism”.
Man, the finest LEOs the Federal government can present have sloppy, non-uniform uniforms.
Our tax dollars, and a spasmodic hiring spree, at work.
Right now, you are on stolen property!  Everyone of you!
This kind of BS is happening all over the country because the Trump administration wants to put FEAR into you!  Everyone of YOU!
The ICE monsters go for the weakest links, people of color..not rich, White people who get away with paying their fair share of taxes.  They go for the little bandits!
They go after poor undocumented immigrants that do the WORK that produces the wealth of the rich White people.  Ironic isn’t it?
Most countries, even democratic ones, use immigrants to produce the wealth for the rich, White people.  BIG DEAL!
This country would be in extreme POVERTY if it weren’t for the White man exploiting the labor of undocumented farm workers.  We all know this.
Raise your hands.  How many of YOU volunteer to work for less than minimum wage picking cherries, toiling under the hot sun in CA’s farm belt or working the night shift cleaning buildings for workers the next day?
Do these people have problems?  YES!
This is normal in the US…use the immigrants to produce the profits and then arrest them for non violent crimes to frighten the working class to keep them quiet and producing profits for the White capitalists.
Read Marx!
This could happen to anyone now living under the Trump regime.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xp9WZeWEfGc
You could get just ONE PHONE CALL if you are rounded up by ICE!  Look at the photo of the “huge, dangerous, armed” woman being surrounded by (it is assumed) ICE!
For those who want to protect themselves from ICE/going to Court, etc.,
it is recommended that you carry:
Your Passport or a Passport Card (the size of a driver’s license)
Your driver’s license
The name of an immigration attorney
The name/phone number of an immediate relative or friend
The name and number of your doctor
The Trump regime is armed and dangerous.  A word to the wise is sufficient.
Reading this story (horrified, discouraged) I see a lot of things I would like to be different. If I saw a child playing outside alone, I would keep an eye on that child, or (if it seems like they might be doing something dangerous) go talk with them. If I had somewhere I needed to go, I would text a neighbor to see if they could keep an eye until they got back. Escalating the situation to the point of law enforcement does not help anyone, least of all the child. Wouldn’t it be lovely if we were able to care for each other, serve and protect each other? Grateful to the individual who posted the photo to Reddit, and to the Independent for reporting on this.
Next year is America’s 250th Anniversary. Thankfully we have a Republican administration. They are planning some incredible events across the country. No better time to live in the USA!
@rsnh2010 – I read your rebuttal to my comment about me playing loose and fast with the facts and how badly I distorted them. News flash rsnh2010, I goggled it as you suggested and up popped at least a dozen lefty MSM news outlets who all went way out of their way to emphasize the fact that it was not a raid. Now why would they do that in lock-step? Was it because Obama was president and they did not want any bad news to hurt their guy? And which news outlet said it was not a raid, NYT’s – The L.A.T’s – ABC – LAist – Long Beach current… you get the picture, all left leaning rags. The news outlet that I found that stated it was the largest immigration raid in U.S. history was, get ready for this now, was (Liberation news) a news outlet so far left it makes the NYT’s look conservative, and that’s saying something. So if you want to read the article that I got the info from and put in my comment you didn’t like, google Liberation news – American apparel fires thousands of Immigrants. Man oh man, I hate having to dig up the truth for some people.
@It’s Just Me: I am happy to assist you with basic reading comprehension.The Liberation News piece clearly explains that the American Apparel event was not a traditional immigration raid. They describe it as a “desktop raid“, which means that no officers were deployed and no one was arrested. Instead, the Obama Administration threatened American Apparel with fines for employing undocumented workers, so American Apparel fired all those workers. To me, that is not a “raid” no matter how Liberation News wants to define it.
And even if you want to argue the semantics of this point, our original point of disagreement was your contention that what the Trump Administration is currently doing is not that much different than what the Obama Administration did, which the Liberation News piece clearly contradicts. Also, the mere existence of the Libertarian News piece contradicts your original assertion that there was “not a peep” of objection from the left to the American Apparel event.
My advice: the next time you think you’ve found a news source that wins you an online debate, maybe have someone else read it and discuss it with them before you break your arm patting yourself on the back.
Even if you believe all immigrants who entered the country illegally should be deported, arresting an immigrant on their way to court is profoundly stupid. Let’s say you are an immigrant, undocumented or a member of a mixes status family, who is a witness in a criminal case. Why would you show up at court if this could result in you or a member of your family being deported? And if you are the victim of a crime, would you report it given these potential consequences? Making immigrants fear going to court makes the city less safe for all of us, immigrants and native-born alike.
There are immigrants here illegally who have been convicted of serious crimes while in this country. I am OK with deporting them, assuming they have been afforded due process as the U.S. Constitution requires. But that has not happened in this case.
@rsnh2010 – To help clear up any confusion about the Liberation article or the meaning of my original comment, the Liberation article clearly states that it was the largest immigration raid in US history. That does not mean ICE agents were physically present, nor did it say that it simply means that it was the largest immigration raid in history. Nowhere in my original comment (which set you off) did I state that ICE agents were physically present during this raid, I just stated what I read in the article, and it appears that you assumed that I was implying ICE agents where there which I did not. If you read the whole Liberation article, I find it hard to believe you missed the paragraph which clearly stated that it was the largest immigration raid in US history. In closing, I would also be happy to assist you with basic reading comprehension.
@It’s Just Me: Why bring up the American Apparel “desktop raid” at all? Clearly, your intent was to argue that the Trump Administration’s actions on immigration are not much different than the Obama Administration’s, and that the American Apparel event may have been an even bigger action than anything that the Trump Administration has done. That is just completely factually incorrect, and is not supported by the Liberation Times article, despite their (inaccurate) claim about its place in the history of immigration-enforcement actions.
(To see how wrong Liberation Times is in this claim, look up George W. Bush’s Swift raids, or Eisenhower’s “Operation Wetback”.)
What the Trump Administration is doing is unprecedented, appalling, terrifying, unnecessary, and destructive in many different ways to the well-being of our nation. Reminding people about the American Apparel thing cannot diminish or ameliorate any of that; rather, it just underscores how much more brutal the Trump Administration is than the Obama Administration was. There is just no comparison in brutality and impact between a “desktop raid” and mothers of young children being snatched away from their kids.
Also, again, you claimed that there was “not a peep” from leftists/liberals/pro-immigrant groups about the American Apparel firings. That, too, is just completely factually incorrect, and the existence of the Liberation Times article itself is evidence of how incorrect that assertion is, since the article is itself a protest against the firings.
Pro-immigrant groups have been remarkably consistent in criticizing both Democratic and Republican administrations for their terrible treatment of immigrants. That such protests are much louder, larger, and widespread this year is not evidence of double standards or hypocrisy, as you implied in your original comment; rather, it is evidence that the Trump Administration’s actions are much worse than previous administrations’.
What happened to the woman in this story could happen to YOU!
Getting abducted by ICE could happen to anyone now living in the United States under the Trump regime.
For those who want to protect themselves from ICE/going to Court, etc.,
it is recommended that you carry:
Your Passport or a Passport Card (the size of a driver’s license)
Your driver’s license
The name of an immigration attorney
The name/phone number of an immediate relative or friend
The name and number of your doctor
The Trump regime is armed and dangerous.
Lawrence O’Donnell on how “This Could Happen to Anyone”.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xp9WZeWEfGc
@rsnh2010 – I’m finding this a big yawn. First you indicated the Liberation article did not contain the statement “largest immigration raid in US history and I pointed it out that it was in the article and now you’re stating that the Liberation article is inaccurate because it did contained the statement “the largest immigration raid in history”, which means that you did read it in the first place. It’s apparent to me and probably most others that you’re a never Trumper and anything he does is wrong, evil, mean, and un-American, whether it’s true or not. Who was it that said, “you can’t please all the people all the time”?
@It’s Just Me: Nowhere did I indicate that the (inaccurate) phrase “the largest immigration raid in U.S. history” did not appear in the Liberation News article. Rather, I suggested that you were inaccurately using the article as “proof” that the American Apparel firings were just as severe if not more so than anything that Trump has done on immigration, and then further (absurdly) claiming that this article, from a socialist website, which criticizes this Obama Administration action, is proof that no immigration-rights activists ever criticized that action.
… and all of this flailing around is in the service of you attempting to discredit criticism of the fact that two New Haven mothers, who have been convicted of no crimes, have been snatched off the street and disappeared, without judicial review, into a brutal and unaccountable ICE gulag. The criticism is valid and necessary, and your objections to that criticism are ridiculous.
rsnh2010 – Hear we go again. Are you one of those people that has to always get the last word in? Anyway, man/woman up to it, you indicated in your reply to my original comment stating that the Liberation article stated it was the largest immigration raid in US history was not true when it was, which you then confirmed in yet another reply but stated that the Liberation article was wrong to state it that way, which most people would say was a contradiction. You can’t have it both ways my friend so continue with your replies to all the pro Trump comments which I know you will, and which are at times more entertaining than the article itself. I know you will reply to this comment looking for yet another reply from me, but you won’t get it as I’ve run out of ink concerning this article. I’m sure I’ll run into you on other upcoming articles so take care and God bless.
@It’s Just Me:
> Hear we go again.
The idiom is “HERE we go again.”
> Are you one of those people that has to always get the last word in?
I confess that, in a debate, I hate to leave any falsehoods unrebutted. For example:
> man/woman up to it, you indicated in your reply to my original comment stating that the Liberation article stated it was the largest immigration raid in US history was not true when it was
I cannot person-up to this, because it didn’t happen. If I have somehow become both blind and forgetful, and I DID say this in a previous message here, please copy & paste the sentence(s) where I claimed that the indicated phrase did not occur in the Liberation News article. Spoiler: actually, you can’t, because I didn’t.
(If you’re referring to my post that begins,”I am happy to assist you with basic reading comprehension” — nowhere in that post do I claim that the “largest raid” sentence isn’t in the article. Instead, my post merely points out that the article’s own reporting contradicts that claim. Once again: reading comprehension.)
> which you then confirmed in yet another reply but stated that the Liberation article was wrong to state it that way
They WERE wrong to state it that way. It is, in fact, not true that the American Apparel firings can be accurately described as “the largest immigration raid in US history.” I know it says that in the article (which I have not attempted to deny), but that doesn’t make it true. As noted above, the article’s own reporting contradicts that claim — if you know a bit about the history of US immigration reporting, the “desktop raid” that they describe cannot fairly be labeled “the largest immigration raid in US history”.
> which most people would say was a contradiction.
No, most people would not say it’s a contradiction to acknowledge that a socialist media outlet labeled a mass firing as “the biggest immigration raid in US history,” and then to disagree with their characterization of that raid.
… also, it is weird, or perhaps just funny, that you, a Republican, continue to imply that we ought to take a sentence from a socialist website as an incontrovertible truth.
Here are some actual incontrovertible truths:
– The way that previous federal administrations treated immigrants is bad. This administration’s actions are much worse. As bad as things have been for immigrants in the past, they have rapidly become so much worse this year that there’s hardly any comparison.
– Snatching mothers, who have not been convicted of any crime, and who have young children, off of the street and disappearing them into a harsh ICE gulag, without any judicial review, is indefensible.
– Immigrant-rights groups have protested the harsh actions of all previous administrations. The protests are more widespread now, and have spread beyond activists to a much larger swath of society, because the current anti-immigrant actions are worse than anything that has come previously — not because of partisanship.
– The rich, comfortable criminals who are directing this unjust persecution are not on anyone’s side but their own. Remember Kristi Noem, with her expensive plastic surgery and her $40,000 Rolex, smugly posing in front of a cage crammed full of young men who were born into poverty.
People of good will must continue to fight this slide into a police state. People of less good will, who sadistically enjoy the suffering that our unaccountable leaders are unnecessarily creating, will continue to vote Republican. We must outvote them.
Comments are closed.
Link
Copy link
Loading Comments...
You must be
logged in
to post a comment.