ACLU of Minnesota sues ICE, DHS over constitutional violations against observers | Courthouse News Service Updates to our Terms of Use We are updating our Terms of Use. Please carefully review the updated Terms before proceeding to our website. I agree to the Terms of Use and acknowledge that my information will be used as described in the Privacy Policy Submit Log in to CasePortal Wednesday, April 23, 2025 Free Litigation Reports Find Judicial Opinions Appeals Arts Business Civil Rights Consumers Courts Criminal Economy Education Employment Energy Entertainment Environment Features Financial Government Health International Law Media National Op-Ed Personal Injury Podcast Politics Regional Religion Science Securities Sports Technology Trials Log in to CasePortal Search Articles Free Litigation Reports Find Judicial Opinions Search Appeals Business Consumers Criminal Education Energy Environment Financial Health Law National Personal Injury Politics Religion Securities Technology Arts Civil Rights Courts Economy Employment Entertainment Features Government International Media Op-Ed Podcast Regional Science Sports Trials Free Litigation Reports Find Judicial Opinions Log in to CasePortal Wednesday, April 23, 2025 View Back issues Wednesday, April 23, 2025 Business Courts Economy Entertainment Op-Ed Politics Podcast Science Trials More Appeals Arts Civil Rights Consumers Criminal Education Employment Energy Environment Features Financial Government Health International Law Media National Personal Injury Regional Religion Securities Sports Technology ACLU of Minnesota sues ICE, DHS over constitutional violations against observers The ACLU of Minnesota filed a class action against federal immigration authorities, claiming unconstitutional mistreatment of bystanders during immigration enforcement events. Ryan Luetkemeyer / December 17, 2025 Link copied Activists confronted a group of Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers in the largely Somali neighborhood of Cedar-Riverside in Minneapolis, Tuesday, Dec. 9, 2025. (AP Photo/Mark Vancleave) (CN) — The American Civil Liberties Union of Minnesota and several law firms filed a federal class action on Wednesday, claiming Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents are using intimidation and force to unconstitutionally silence bystanders observing immigration raids in the Twin Cities. In the complaint filed on behalf of six Minnesota residents, the nonprofit says ICE agents have pepper-sprayed and pointed assault rifles at peaceful observers, temporarily abducted U.S. citizens and followed Minnesotans home in unmarked cars to scare them away from future protests. &ldquo;The people of Minnesota deserve better than this,&rdquo; ACLU staff attorney Alicia Granse said in a press release . &ldquo;The federal government&rsquo;s unlawful attacks on observers and protestors must be stopped.&rdquo; The lawsuit comes amid Operation Metro Surge , a Department of Homeland Security initiative launched in early December that ramped up ICE activity and raids in Minnesota. While officials claim the operation targets &ldquo;the worst of the worst&rdquo; criminal immigrants, the nonprofit argues the recent surge has terrorized Minnesota&rsquo;s Somali population and caused harm to Twin Cities residents. One of the plaintiffs, Abdikadir Abdi Noor, is a 43-year-old Somali American and U.S. citizen of 20 years. On Dec. 15, Noor claims he attempted to inform community members of their rights and calm a restless crowd during a federal traffic stop of Latino individuals. Despite his de-escalation efforts, Noor was grabbed, tackled to the ground and detained by agents. Among the other plaintiffs is Susan Tincher, a 55-year-old Minneapolis resident who claims she was tackled, handcuffed and held in a cell for five hours by federal agents just because she walked up and asked if they were ICE officials. Tincher was eventually released without charge, although DHS spokesperson Tricia McLaughlin claimed she was arrested for assaulting a federal agent and trying to break through a security perimeter, which Tincher claims are false accusations. &ldquo;I was on a public street,&rdquo; Tincher said in the ACLU release. &ldquo;I did not cross any lines. I did not interfere with anything.&rdquo; In another account, plaintiffs John Biestman and Janet Lee, a retired couple, claim they were boxed in by unmarked black SUVs and held at gunpoint after they followed an ICE vehicle after a raid at a local church. Before letting them leave, the elderly couple said federal agents threatened them with arrest and that &ldquo;we have your license plate, we know where to find you.&rdquo; Detailed in the complaint is Minnesota Governor Tim Walz&rsquo;s letter to federal officials on Dec. 12 advocating for better treatment of Minnesotans who are exercising their constitutional rights in relation to these enforcement operations. &ldquo;Residents who document law enforcement activity, including immigration enforcement, play an essential role in transparency, accountability, and safeguarding the civil liberties of all in Minnesota,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Detaining citizens for exercising these rights sends a deeply disturbing signal about how those very rights are being eroded.&rdquo; Through the lawsuit, ACLU of Minnesota aims to vindicate the rights of Minnesotans who have been &ldquo;victimized by their own government&rdquo; for exercising their rights and to ensure that Minnesotans can assemble, observe, document and criticize the actions of government entities without fear of retaliation. Categories / Civil Rights , Immigration , Law Subscribe to our free newsletters Our weekly newsletter Closing Arguments offers the latest about ongoing trials, major litigation and rulings in courthouses around the U.S. and the world, while the monthly Under the Lights dishes the legal dirt from Hollywood, sports, Big Tech and the arts. Additional Reads Judge orders ICE to hold bond hearing for detained immigrant activist by Christmas Eve December 17, 2025 Flight path denied: Former cadets sue American Airlines over racial discrimination, fraud December 17, 2025 Alexander brothers' civil rape case could have wider impact on NYC victims December 17, 2025 South African authorities raid a US refugee processing center and Washington protests December 17, 2025 About Us / Masthead / Advertise / Subscriber Support / Careers Connect with us on our social channels: &#169; 2025, Courthouse News Service Terms of Use &nbsp;&nbsp;&bull;&nbsp; Privacy Policy &nbsp;&nbsp;&bull;&nbsp; Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Loading... Privacy Preference Center We use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. We do this to improve browsing experience and to show personalized ads. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions. Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookies Always active These cookies are necessary for the website to function and cannot be switched off in our systems. They are usually only set in response to actions made by you which amount to a request for services, such as setting your privacy preferences, logging in or filling in forms. You can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the site will not then work. These cookies do not store any personally identifiable information. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Performance Cookies Performance Cookies The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes. Manage options Manage services Manage {vendor_count} vendors Read more about these purposes Accept All Cookies Reject All Cookie Settings Confirm My Choices Cookie Settings {title} {title} {title} Privacy Preference Center To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions. Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookies Always active These cookies are necessary for the website to function and cannot be switched off in our systems. They are usually only set in response to actions made by you which amount to a request for services, such as setting your privacy preferences, logging in or filling in forms. You can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the site will not then work. These cookies do not store any personally identifiable information. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Performance Cookies Performance Cookies The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes. Manage options Manage services Manage {vendor_count} vendors Read more about these purposes Accept Reject All Cookie Settings Confirm My Choices Cookie Settings {title} {title} {title} Manage consent Manage consent