150 arrested in SF after rally against ICE raids, National Guard
San Francisco Chronicle Logo
Hearst Newspapers Logo
Bay Area
//
San Francisco
ICE protest in S.F.: More than 150 arrested in chaotic demonstration against National Guard
By
David Hernandez
,
J.D. Morris
Updated
June 9, 2025 11:35 a.m.
A protester kneels in front of San Francisco police officers Sunday evening, with a sign reading “This is what a police state looks like,” near the San Francisco office of the federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency on Sansome Street.
Scott Strazzante/S.F. Chronicle
A chalk slogan reads “Stop ICE” as protesters gather outside the ICE office in San Francisco.
Scott Strazzante/S.F. Chronicle
People watch while several Waymo cars burn Sunday in downtown Los Angeles after being vandalized by protesters reacting to ICE raids.
Stephen Lam/S.F. Chronicle
Protesters in downtown Los Angeles voice their outrage Sunday against ICE raids in Los Angeles over the weekend.
Stephen Lam/S.F. Chronicle
Protesters block Highway 101 near the metropolitan detention center of downtown Los Angeles on Sunday.
Eric Thayer/Associated Press
Update:
Two protests planned in S.F. Monday as tensions rise over immigration arrests
More than 150 people were arrested Sunday night in San Francisco after a protest against President Donald Trump’s immigration raids became chaotic amid his
extraordinary deployment of federal troops
hundreds of miles away in Southern California.
Related:
National Guard fires tear gas at ICE protest in L.A.; vehicles torched and marchers block Highway 101
More:
Fallout over National Guard troops in L.A.: Is Trump a ‘dictator’ or protector?
Read also:
With National Guard deployment, Trump seeks upper hand in intensifying feud with California
Advertisement
Article continues below this ad
The protest started peacefully around 6 p.m. near a U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement office on Sansome Street, but within an hour it had grown into a tense standoff between demonstrators and police. While many in the crowd of hundreds departed after officers declared an unlawful assembly, some continued marching through streets before officers began making arrests several hours later on Montgomery Street.
Some protesters shattered windows and vandalized buildings, Muni vehicles and an SFPD patrol car, according to police and Mayor Daniel Lurie. Two officers were injured, one of whom went to a hospital for treatment, the police department said.
San Francisco Chronicle Logo
See more S.F. Chronicle on Google
Make us a Preferred Source to get more of our news when you search.
Add Preferred Source
‘Wildly underprepared’:
National Guard troops seen sleeping on floors in exclusive photos
On Monday, police officials said 148 adults and six juveniles were arrested. Police cited and released all but one, who was arrested on suspicion of aggravated assault.
“Everyone in this country has a right to make their voice heard peacefully, and local law enforcement will always protect that right and the rights of everyone in our city to be safe,” Lurie said in a
statement
late Sunday night. “But we will never tolerate violent and destructive behavior. … Violence directed at law enforcement or public servants is never acceptable.”
Advertisement
Article continues below this ad
Protesters face off against San Francisco police officers during the ICE protest Sunday evening.
Scott Strazzante/S.F. Chronicle
Protesters sought to express solidarity with those in Los Angeles County who have rallied against immigration agents targeting people for deportation at businesses and court hearings. In response to the protests, Trump
announced
Saturday that he would send 2,000 National Guard soldiers to Los Angeles.
After troops arrived in Los Angeles on Sunday, protesters
blocked
traffic on Highway 101 and set autonomous vehicles
on fire
as authorities fired tear gas and declared an unlawful assembly. Dozens of people were arrested over the weekend.
In San Francisco, organizers said before their show of solidarity that they didn’t want to wait for federal agents to “descend and tear apart our communities.”
The demonstration came days after advocates
reported
that at least 15 people, including children as young as 3, were detained during scheduled check-ins at the San Francisco ICE office.
Graffiti reading “ICE out of California” was left on the ICE office during the protest Sunday.
Scott Strazzante/S.F. Chronicle
Toward the beginning of the San Francisco protest Sunday, labor and community activist Gloria La Riva said immigrants are the backbone of many industries, including Trump’s hotel empire. She called the deployment of the National Guard in Los Angeles “a mistake,” describing the region a city built on immigrants.
Advertisement
Article continues below this ad
La Riva and other speakers said the moment called for demonstrations to defend immigrant rights.
“We’ve got to march, we’ve got to stay together,” La Riva said.
At the start of the demonstration, about 500 protesters assembled
outside the ICE office on the corner of Washington and Sansome streets, shutting down the intersection. Police officers who later confronted the group held batons; others were armed what looked like guns with rubber bullets.
0 seconds of 0 seconds
Volume 90%
Press shift question mark to access a list of keyboard shortcuts
Keyboard Shortcuts
Enabled
Disabled
Shortcuts Open/Close
/ or ?
Play/Pause
SPACE
Increase Volume
↑
Decrease Volume
↓
Seek Forward
→
Seek Backward
←
Captions On/Off
c
Fullscreen/Exit Fullscreen
f
Mute/Unmute
m
Decrease Caption Size
-
Increase Caption Size
+ or =
Seek %
0-9
facebook
x
Email
Link
https://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/article/sf-ice-protests-against-trump-sending-troops-to-la-20367057.php
Copied
Live
00:00
00:00
00:00
Protesters face off against SFPD officers
Protesters face off against San Francisco police officers on Sansome Street on Sunday night.
Scott Strazzante / S.F. Chronicle
“Stand up, fight back,” the group of demonstrators chanted as they walked up to the line of officers at one point. “Trump must go down.”
At about 7:30 p.m., two demonstrators smashed sledgehammers into doors and windows on the Sansome Street building where the ICE office is located. The exterior of the building was defaced with graffiti that read “F— ICE,” “ACAB” (for “All Cops Are Bastards”) and other messages.
San Francisco police later ordered hundreds of demonstrators gathered near Sansome and Jackson streets to disperse, and officers then advanced in a line toward the crowd, which held its ground. Eventually the two sides pushed each other as they tussled over a metal barricade they held between their bodies. Officers pushed the group back about half a block. The crowd, which had dwindled to about 200 people, chanted “abolish ICE.”
As officers held the line, a demonstrator threw an object at them. An officer pointed what looked like a less-lethal gun at the crowd, but didn’t fire.
Advertisement
Article continues below this ad
The protesters began to march away from the office building just after 8 p.m. “Whose streets?” the demonstrators chanted as they walked down Sansome Street. “Our streets.”
Hundreds of people protest outside ICE’s San Francisco office on Sansome Street.
Scott Strazzante/S.F. Chronicle
The group walked down Market Street to the Embarcadero BART Station, where the demonstrators were met by police officers — some on foot, others on motorcycles and in sport utility vehicles. The group then headed back down Market Street, as officers followed. BART
said
shortly before 9 p.m. that Embarcadero Station was closed “due to a civil disturbance,” but service was
restored
less than an hour later.
Around 9 p.m., the group was blocked in on Montgomery Street near Bush Street, with officers forming a circle around the demonstrators. “Let us go!” the crowd chanted. California Highway Patrol officers arrived as backup and formed a line at Montgomery and Bush streets.
By 9:40 p.m., an officer told the remaining crowd of at least 50 demonstrators that they were under arrest and instructed them to sit down. A protester in the group was detained around 10 p.m., and others followed shortly after.
SFPD said it made the 60 arrests, which included some juveniles, after protesters refused to comply with a dispersal order on the 200 block of Montgomery Street. Officers also recovered one gun, police said.
The National Guard deployment by Trump
intensified a feud with California
that has simmered throughout the early months of his second term in the White House. It’s the
first time in 60 years
that a president has deployed the National Guard without the request of a state governor, but the circumstances are far different. When President Lyndon Johnson sent troops to Alabama to protect a 1965 civil rights march led by the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., he did so because the state’s segregationist governor had declined to send in the Guard.
Advertisement
Article continues below this ad
Signs in the crowd at the San Francisco protest included messages such as “No one is illegal on stolen land.”
Scott Strazzante/S.F. Chronicle
In this instance, Trump overrode the wishes of Gov. Gavin Newsom, who said there was “no unmet need” for additional law enforcement in Los Angeles. Newsom on Sunday urged Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth to rescind what the governor called an “unlawful deployment of troops.”
“We didn’t have a problem until Trump got involved,” Newsom
said
in a social media post. “This is a serious breach of state sovereignty — inflaming tensions while pulling resources from where they’re actually needed.”
Hegseth and Trump, however, have shown no indication that they will back down anytime soon.
Hegseth threatened Saturday to send Marines stationed at Camp Pendleton in San Diego County to help crack down on Southern California protests — an idea that Newsom called “deranged.” Trump, for his part,
wrote
on his social media website Sunday that Los Angeles had been “invaded and occupied” by undocumented immigrants and criminals and that “lawless riots” in the city would “only strengthen our resolve.”
Trump said he had directed his administration to “to take all such action necessary to liberate Los Angeles.”
“Order will be restored, the Illegals will be expelled, and Los Angeles will be set free,” he said.
Protesters left graffiti outside ICE’s San Francisco office during Sunday’s protest.
Scott Strazzante/S.F. Chronicle
One of the San Francisco protesters, Holly Pablo, said she came to the demonstration with her 15-year-old daughter to show her “the reality of what we live in” because “we have to prepare.”
“So many people … are being pulled over that aren’t supposed to be,” Pablo said. “We’re not criminals. They want to criminalize everyone, but what they’re doing is bringing down our economy, and everyone’s going to get f—ed after that.”
Another San Francisco protest against Trump’s immigration raids and his recent
ban on travel from 12 countries
was set for 4 p.m. Monday in front of City Hall.
June 8, 2025
|
Updated
June 9, 2025 11:35 a.m.
David Hernandez
Breaking News Reporter
David Hernandez covers public safety for the San Francisco Chronicle. Before joining the Chronicle in December 2023, he reported on crime, law enforcement and criminal justice for the San Diego Union-Tribune. A graduate of San Diego State University, he is a member of the National Association of Hispanic Journalists. He was born and raised in Santa Cruz.
J.D. Morris
City Hall Reporter
J.D. Morris covers San Francisco City Hall, focused on Mayor Daniel Lurie. He joined the Chronicle in 2018 to cover energy and spent three years writing mostly about PG&E and California wildfires.
Before coming to the Chronicle, he reported on local government for the Santa Rosa Press Democrat, where he was among the journalists awarded a Pulitzer Prize for their coverage of the 2017 North Bay wildfires.
He was previously the casino industry reporter for the Las Vegas Sun. Raised in Monterey County and Bakersfield, he has a bachelor’s degree in rhetoric from UC Berkeley.
Most Popular
1
.
S.F. mountain lion tranquilized, will be released into wild
2
.
Exclusive: Hegseth boosts Minneapolis immigration siege, approving use of military base
3
.
White House disputes report on Greg Bovino’s removal
4
.
This might be the smartest way to think about claiming Social Security
5
.
California millennials’ favorite winery is expanding
Your Daily Puzzles
Pile-Up Poker
Poker meets Solitaire. Cards and strategy combine in a new way.
Cross|word
An approachable redesign to a classic, featuring exclusive weekday puzzles.
Flipart
A quick daily flip. Finally someone cracked the code on digital jigsaw puzzles.
SpellTower
Word search but with strategy. Clearing the board feels really good.
Latest Video
S.F. mountain lion captured after hours of drama
A mountain lion that was spotted in the heart of San Francisco was captured about 30 hours after it was first seen and is expected to be released to the wild.
01:02
Mountain lion spotted in S.F.
Resident Madrey Hilton spotted the lion on Sacramento and Gough streets as she left for work. She was in her car and saw it coming toward her. “It was so big… not just a regular cat,” she said.
00:07
DHS Moves to Use Fort Snelling for Federal Operations
An SFC reporter explains how federal agents have been approved to stage personnel and equipment at Fort Snelling after weeks of violent clashes, raising concerns given the site’s history.
01:14
There's a new way to buy Dungeness crab in S.F.
A Saturday popup allows customers to purchase crab and have it cooked to order directly on the docks.
01:04
Video of ICE agents at scene of Minnesota shooting
A video taken by a reporter for Bring Me the News captures immigration agents scrambling in Minneapolis and records shots, but does not show the victim.
00:21
This is one of San Francisco's most thrilling delis
Dolores Deluxe started as a bottle shop, and now it has become one of the best sandwich spots in San Francisco.
01:01
This is the most wildfire-proof neighborhood in northern California
Trees are all spaced several feet apart. Eaves are enclosed. It’s all an effort to reduce the chances of these homes burning down in a wildfire.
01:16
We blind-tasted frozen pizzas from S.F.'s iconic pizzerias
The Chronicle’s Food + Wine team taste-tested frozen Margherita pies from four of San Francisco’s most iconic pizzerias — Del Popolo, Pizzeria Delfina and Flour + Water Pizzeria — to find the most delicious option.
00:57
500-foot BASE jumps near Lake Tahoe
In an audacious stunt, a BASE jumper recently skied off of a 500-foot granite cliff outside South Lake Tahoe and parachuted down to the ground.
00:31
The Bay Area’s most anticipated restaurant openings of 2026
The Bay Area’s most-awaited restaurant openings in 2026, from Maillards and Good Morning 96 in San Francisco to Café Bolita in Berkeley.
01:57
More for You
U.S. & World
Hegseth approves request for use of Fort Snelling near Minneapolis
Exclusive: Defense Secretary Hegseth approves request by leaders of Minneapolis immigration siege for use of Fort Snelling military base
Movies & TV
Zendaya gives rare comment on domestic life with fiancé Tom Holland
Open Forum
How Trump’s Greenland obsession could land him in a military stockade
Bay Area
Tiny village for homeless blindsides neighbors in Marin County city
Real Estate
New California law means big changes for real estate listing photos
Let's Play