Title: Illegal immigrant from Jamaica accused of assaulting officer in South Nashville: ICE
Authors: Thu, September, At Am
Published: 2025-09-25 16:55:56+00:00

A Nashville man accused of assaulting an officer earlier this month is an illegal immigrant from Jamaica, ICE confirms to FOX 17 News.

Metro Police said on Sept. 10 in South Nashville, Tarfari Renaldo McIntosh was under the influence, left the scene of 3 crashes and assaulted officer Bailee Mathers which sent her to the hospital.

Officers said she was working an extra-duty school safety initiative assignment at Una Elementary School, when she spotted McIntosh at a nearby carwash and hit her. Authorities then said she tased him, but he ripped off his taser probes and hit her again.

According to ICE, McIntosh overstayed a B2 temporary tourism visa by more than three years.

They sent us this statement in part:

"Law enforcement officers face a more than 1000% increase in assaults against them because of dangerous social media posts and political grandstanding. Acts of violence fueled by rhetoric from politicians, celebrities, and other people vilify our law enforcement officers as they risk their lives to arrest the worst of the worst criminal illegal aliens every day. We will not and have not let this violence slow us down from enforcing the law and protecting our communities."

Mcintosh currently has an ICE detainer.

He is facing several charges including driving under the influence, leaving the scene of an accident-causing injury, leaving the scene of an accident with damage of $1,500 or less, leaving the scene of an accident with damage over $1,500 and assault on a law enforcement officer with bodily injury.

According to the criminal court clerk's office, McIntosh had a hearing on Sept. 19 where his case was bound over to criminal court because probable cause was met.

McIntosh is awaiting a grand jury indictment which could take anywhere from four to six months.

Download the FREE FOX 17 News app to get push alerts sent to your iPhone, iPad or Android.



