Fear of ICE raids spreads among California’s farmworkers
San Francisco Chronicle Logo
Hearst Newspapers Logo
U.S. & World
//
California
Fear of ICE raids spreads among California’s farmworkers
By
Julie Johnson
,
Staff Writer
Updated
June 13, 2025 11:06 a.m.
Farm laborers work a field near Bakersfield in April. Roughly half of the Central Valley’s farm workforce is undocumented.
Frederic J. Brown/Getty Images
The nation’s most abundant harvest is ripening in California’s Central Valley fields, but the people at the heart of these agricultural communities are living in fear.
Rumors of immigration raids — most unconfirmed — swirled from Colusa to Kern counties this week. Roughly half of all farmworkers laboring in America’s breadbasket are undocumented, putting this region in the crosshairs of President Donald Trump’s ramped-up deportation campaign.
Related reading:
Livermore man deported to Mexico after ICE arrest two weeks ago
Advertisement
Article continues below this ad
Callers flooded immigration enforcement help hotlines. Local officials chased reports of people being apprehended from job sites, businesses and even health clinics. People afraid of deportation stopped showing up for work, church and school.
“People are anxious. People are scared,” said Rosa Lopez, an organizer with the ACLU who helps run the Kern County Rapid Response Network. The network operates an immigrant assistance hotline that has exploded this week, from a few dozen calls a week in past months to hundreds a day, she said. Some callers are so scared that they won’t leave their house unless they absolutely have to, Lopez said.
San Francisco Chronicle Logo
See more S.F. Chronicle on Google
Make us a Preferred Source to get more of our news when you search.
Add Preferred Source
Authorities
confirmed
that federal immigration agents apprehended immigrants in Ventura County on Tuesday. At least 35 people were arrested after officers visited farms and packing facilities in the Oxnard area, according to the
Los Angeles Times
.
Trump acknowledged the potential impact of increased raids on America’s farming community in a social media post Thursday. American farmers “have been stating that our very aggressive policy on immigration is taking very good, long time workers away from them,” he said. “We must protect our Farmers, but get the CRIMINALS OUT OF THE USA. Changes are coming!”
Advertisement
Article continues below this ad
Earlier this year, Trump mused about creating a pathway to retain farm labor by deporting undocumented farmworkers but then allowing them to return legally if their employers vouched for them. The White House has not elaborated on how such a plan might work.
Fresno County Supervisor Luis Chavez said Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents had staged vehicles in the Fresno area, but he was told by local law enforcement they hadn’t yet made any arrests. Fear was mounting. He said he’s heard from churches, grocery stores, schools and hardware stores that people are staying home and out of the public eye.
“It’s like a ghost town out there,” Chavez said.
The numerous rumors of raids were either debunked or remained unconfirmed as of Thursday. The Department of Homeland Security did not respond to specific questions from the Chronicle but provided a statement from Assistant Secretary Tricia McLaughlin: “Secretary (Kristi) Noem’s message to California rioters is simple: you will not stop us or slow us down. ICE will continue to enforce the law.”
Hundreds of miles away,
Los Angeles continued to roil with demonstrations
sparked when federal immigration agents launched a dizzying campaign to apprehend people across the region. The White House confirmed at least 300 people had been taken.
Advertisement
Article continues below this ad
The Central Valley had seemed unusually quiet, said state Sen. Melissa Hurtado, D-Bakersfield. But “I understood very well what was yet to come,” she said. Trump began his second presidency promising to create the largest deportation program in U.S. history.
And now, as blueberries, peaches and nectarines ripen, farmers wonder whether they will have the workforce needed to pick them.
“Without these employees, crops would go unharvested, rural business would suffer, and food prices could rise for families across the country,” Bryan Little, the California Farm Bureau’s senior director of policy advocacy, said in a
statement
.
California Sens. Alex Padilla and Adam Schiff condemned the agricultural raids in a joint statement Wednesday. “Targeting hardworking farm workers and their families who have been doing the backbreaking work in the fields for decades is unjustified and unconscionable,” they said.
Though authorities confirmed raids only in Ventura County, the specter of more ICE activity rippled far beyond, sending immigrant advocates chasing false leads and agriculture leaders quelling rumors.
Advertisement
Article continues below this ad
United Farm Workers union representatives rush to sites in response to each hotline call, social media post or other tips reporting a potential immigration raid — and the reports have poured in over the past week, said President Teresa Romero. But the UFW has yet to catch ICE officers in the act.
“By the time we get there, they’re gone,” Romero said. “It is just terrorizing the farmworkers.”
Romero said union members had reported witnessing ICE activity in Tulare and Kern counties, but that she had “no idea” where the alleged activity occurred or how many people might have been detained. Local farm bureau leaders for Tulare and Kern said they had not confirmed any ICE activity.
Fresno County Farm Bureau CEO Ryan Jacobsen said he spent much of the week calling member farms to verify viral social media posts about ICE raids, but he couldn’t confirm a single one.
Farms in Fresno haven’t reported no-shows yet, Jacobsen said, but “that could change very quickly” if fears proliferate that federal immigration agents will flood fields, whether those fears are founded or not. He said he is making sure farmers know that they can deny entry to ICE officers without a warrant.
Advertisement
Article continues below this ad
In Ventura County, some farmworkers did not show up Wednesday to the Oxnard Plain’s fertile strawberry, lima bean and cilantro fields, said Javier Martinez, an agricultural farm community assistant for the county. Some of Martinez’s relatives stayed home, fearing ICE could be lying in wait, and one ranch only had five workers of the usual 30-strong crew, he said.
“It’s very scary,” Martinez said. “There are multiple families that are not gonna go to work for the rest of this week because they are scared of going back to their work and getting raided out of the blue.”
Romero said many farmworkers are too scared to venture out to public parks or to accompany their children to school. But she said they can’t afford to stay home from work for long.
“It is terrifying the farmworkers, it is terrifying their children, but they continue to work,” Romero said. “These are people who have to support their families.”
June 13, 2025
|
Updated
June 13, 2025 11:06 a.m.
Julie Johnson
Reporter
Julie Johnson is a staff writer covering wildfires, electricity prices, oil refineries and the North Coast of California for the Chronicle.
Julie’s in-depth examination of smoke exposure among wildland firefighters was a Scripps Howard finalist in 2023 for environmental reporting. In 2024, Julie’s investigation into the killing of a Mohawk activist who helped spark the 1969 occupation of Alcatraz Island, written with Jason Fagone, won first place honors from the Online Journalism Awards. Prior to the Chronicle, Julie was a reporter with the Santa Rosa Press Democrat, where she anchored the paper’s coverage of California wildfires awarded the 2018 Pulitzer Prize in breaking news.
Most Popular
1
.
S.F. mountain lion tranquilized, will be released into wild
2
.
Exclusive: Hegseth boosts Minneapolis immigration siege, approving use of military base
3
.
White House disputes report on Greg Bovino’s removal
4
.
This might be the smartest way to think about claiming Social Security
5
.
California millennials’ favorite winery is expanding
Your Daily Puzzles
Cross|word
An approachable redesign to a classic, featuring exclusive weekday puzzles.
Pile-Up Poker
Poker meets Solitaire. Cards and strategy combine in a new way.
Flipart
A quick daily flip. Finally someone cracked the code on digital jigsaw puzzles.
SpellTower
Word search but with strategy. Clearing the board feels really good.
More for You
U.S. & World
Hegseth approves request for use of Fort Snelling near Minneapolis
Exclusive: Defense Secretary Hegseth approves request by leaders of Minneapolis immigration siege for use of Fort Snelling military base
Open Forum
How Trump’s Greenland obsession could land him in a military stockade
Real Estate
New California law means big changes for real estate listing photos
Giants
Giants’ Jung Hoo Lee released from detainment at Los Angeles airport
Personal Finance
Retirement savings: How to hit 401(k) milestones, next steps
Let's Play