Title: SEIU California President David Huerta Injured, Detained at ICE Raid in Los Angeles
Published: 2025-06-06 00:00:00

Los Angeles – David Huerta, President of SEIU California and SEIU- United Service Workers West was injured and detained at an ICE raid in Los Angeles today while exercising his First Amendment right to observe and document law enforcement activity.

**UPDATE FRIDAY 6/6 AT 5:30PM:

David Huerta, President of SEIU California and SEIU- United Service Workers West, has been released from the hospital where he was treated for injuries sustained during his arrest and at this time remains in custody. He made the following statement:

“What happened to me is not about me; This is about something much bigger. This is about how we as a community stand together and resist the injustice that’s happening. Hard-working people, and members of our family and our community, are being treated like criminals. We all collectively have to object to this madness because this is not justice. This is injustice. And we all have to stand on the right side of justice.”

Tia Orr, Executive Director of SEIU California, made the following statement:

“SEIU California members call for the immediate release of our President, David Huerta, who was injured and detained at the site of one of today’s ICE raids in Los Angeles. He is now receiving medical attention while in custody.

“We are proud of President Huerta’s righteous participation as a community observer, in keeping with his long history of advocating for immigrant workers and with the highest values of our movement: standing up to injustice, regardless of personal risk or the power of those perpetrating it.

“We call for an end to the cruel, destructive, and indiscriminate ICE raids that are tearing apart our communities, disrupting our economy, and hurting all working people. Immigrant workers are essential to our society: feeding our nation, caring for our elders, cleaning our workplaces, and building our homes.”

###

Over 750,000 Californians make up SEIU in California; we work throughout the state, in all 58 counties, and we represent California in all of its diversity. We are social workers, nurses, classroom aides, state workers, security officers, college professors, home care workers, janitors, doctors, and more.

The Los Angeles Rapid Response Network (LAARN) has scheduled a news conference in response to today’s raids for 4pm today at the LA Federal Building.

LAARN is a coalition of local and national organizations working together to protect immigrants from enforcement actions, defend constitutional rights, and provide legal and social services.