Health care workers push for changes as ICE causes fear at HCMC We report the truth about immigration. Sahan Journal provides free, reliable news for everyone in Minnesota. Stay informed with our weekly newsletter. Sign up This is a critical moment for immigrants and communities of color. Or reporters are on the ground, delivering trusted coverage you won’t find anywhere else. Free to read, but not free to produce. 1,900+ supporters make this possible. Add your support now. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Close NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Search for: Search Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS &amp; CULTURE BUSINESS &amp; WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Close NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS &amp; CULTURE BUSINESS &amp; WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Skip to content Sahan Journal A nonprofit newsroom dedicated to reporting for Minnesota’s immigrants and communities of color. Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Open Search Search for: Search ❤️ DONATE Menu Trending: ICE in Minnesota | Renee Good | Whipple Building Posted in HEALTH Hennepin County health care workers say ICE presence at hospital is ‘disruptive’ Health care workers say ICE agents inside Hennepin County Medical Center are deterring patients from receiving care safely, prompting calls for policy changes. by Katrina Pross January 13, 2026 January 14, 2026 Share this: Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Brian Muthyala, MD, MPH speaks at a County Commissioner meeting at the Hennepin County Government Center in Minneapolis on Jan 13, 2026. Credit: Christopher Juhn Stay informed. Sign up for Sahan Sunday, our weekly newsletter with Minnesota news you need to know. Sign up When the stakes are high, access to information is essential. Support independent journalism when it’s needed most. DONATE NOW Dozens of health care professionals and community members packed a Hennepin County Board of Commissioners meeting Tuesday, expressing concern about the presence of federal immigration officers at Hennepin County Medical Center. The health care workers said at the meeting that Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents have been present in the hospital, which has created immense fear for patients and hospital staff alike. They said that the agents’ presence has made it difficult for health care workers to do their jobs, and that patients who are undocumented are not coming in to get care over fears they may encounter ICE.&nbsp; “Our staff are afraid for their safety, afraid for the safety of their patients, and it is causing incredible disruption to the work that&#8217;s happening at Hennepin Healthcare,” said Dr. Brian Muthyala, a physician at Hennepin Healthcare.&nbsp; Some at the meeting called for stricter policies surrounding federal law enforcement&#8217;s access to hospitals and for Hennepin County Sheriff’s deputies to step in and remove the agents for trespassing if they don’t show a warrant.&nbsp; “Our security has asked them to leave,” said Dr. Kathleen Wilcox, who works at the hospital. “They said, ‘No.&#8217; They have guns. We need to do everything that we can to secure patient safety.” Last week, an ICE agent shot and killed Renee Nicole Good , sparking protests and calls for action nationwide. Thousands of ICE agents have been deployed to the Twin Cities.&nbsp; Dr. Dillon Kurila, a surgical resident at HCMC, said he has been caring for a patient who is in ICE custody.&nbsp; “I am here on behalf of myself as well as my fellow residents who are being prevented from providing proper care for this patient,” he said at the Hennepin County board meeting. RELATED STORIES Crowd of 100 confronts immigration agents door-knocking in south Minneapolis ‘I heard screaming, I heard crying:’ Inside ICE detainment at the Whipple Building Multiple federal prosecutors resign from Minnesota U.S. Attorney’s Office week after ICE fatal shooting Jamey Sharp, a community organizer and health care worker who works with the nonprofit Unidos Minnesota, and two health care workers at HCMC told Sahan Journal that ICE agents have been at the bedside of a patient for the past several days, and at one point shackled the patient’s legs together.&nbsp; The two health care workers who work at HCMC spoke to Sahan Journal on the condition of anonymity, due to concerns over losing their jobs.&nbsp; The agents have been working in shifts, with typically two agents in the room at a time, but at times there are up to four agents in the patient’s room, one health care worker said. The health care worker said that the agents said they had a judicial warrant for the patient, but that they did not show one to them.&nbsp; At one point, the agents shackled the patient&#8217;s legs together, the health care worker said, and&nbsp;that agents told hospital staff that they believed the patient was trying to escape, but the medical providers did not think that was the case. “It&#8217;s inappropriate,” the health care worker said. “The patient didn&#8217;t do anything to deserve that.” Kathleen Wilcox, a physician, speaks at a County Commissioner meeting at the Hennepin County Government Center in Minneapolis on Jan 13, 2026. Credit: Christopher Juhn The health care worker said that multiple providers confronted the agents about restraining the patient, which escalated into a verbal argument in the hallway. Eventually, the shackles were removed.&nbsp; “It felt like the ICE people just thought that the person was just less than a person, or, like, less than an animal or something,” the health care worker said.&nbsp; The two health care workers who spoke with Sahan Journal declined to describe the patient’s medical condition, due to privacy concerns.&nbsp; After hospital staff and security were unable to get the agents to leave, Sharp said they reached out to the Hennepin County Sheriff’s Office was asked to remove the agents but refused.&nbsp; In an email to Sahan Journal, Megan Larson, communications director for the office, denied that the Sheriff’s Office was asked to remove anyone, and said that the county is responsible for security in the hospital. A social worker watches a County Commissioner meeting at the Hennepin County Government Center in Minneapolis on Jan 13, 2026. Credit: Christopher Juhn Christine Hill, media relations manager for Hennepin Healthcare, said the hospital is not sharing information about the presence or status of federal agents at HCMC or at the system’s neighborhood clinics “to protect confidentiality and maintain a safe environment for our patients, employees and visitors.”&nbsp; Hennepin Healthcare released a statement last week after reports of ICE being at the bedside of a different patient.&nbsp; “We protect confidential health information, request appropriate legal documentation before granting access to patient areas, post signage marking public and private areas, and direct any enforcement interactions through our trained security and leadership teams to minimize disruption to clinical care,” the statement from last week reads in part.&nbsp; ICE did not respond to a request for comment before publication.&nbsp; In an interview Monday, Hennepin County Commissioner Angela Conley, whose district includes HCMC, said she could not comment on this specific patient, but said that ICE has been in the hospital and that it is a significant concern. She said the county is looking at updating the hospital’s policies and exploring legal options.&nbsp; “It has been extraordinarily frustrating to know that private areas of our hospital have been infiltrated … by ICE agents,” Conley said. “It is our position that we don&#8217;t believe that they should lawfully be in that building.” Michelle Gross, president of Communities United Against Police Brutality, said at the meeting that she is calling for a separation ordinance that would prohibit county resources and services from being used in federal immigration enforcement.&nbsp; Gross told Sahan Journal that if ICE refuses to leave HCMC and doesn’t have the authorization to be there, sheriff’s deputies should be able to remove them.&nbsp; “Security should act first, but if they are not able to get an appropriate response, then the answer is that the deputies have to act,” Gross said.&nbsp; Michelle Gross of Communities United Against Police Brutality speaks at a County Commissioner meeting at the Hennepin County Government Center in Minneapolis on Jan 13, 2026. Credit: Christopher Juhn READ MORE Judge weighs Minnesota effort to end Operation Metro Surge, presses DOJ lawyers representing ICE Minneapolis mourns ICU nurse killed by a Border Patrol agent as a warmhearted neighbor and caregiver State, feds clash in court over preserving evidence in Alex Pretti killing Do you feel more informed? This news is free to read, but not to produce. As a nonprofit, we depend on your support to keep our reporting accessible to all. Make a gift today and join the 1,900+ donors who power Sahan Journal. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Tagged: Hennepin County ,&nbsp; Hennepin County Board of Commissioners ,&nbsp; Hennepin County Medical Center ,&nbsp; ICE ,&nbsp; Minneapolis Katrina Pross kpross@sahanjournal.com x Katrina Pross is the social services reporter at Sahan Journal, covering topics such as health and housing. She joined Sahan in 2024, and previously covered public safety. Before joining Sahan, Katrina... More by Katrina Pross Latest Articles Judge weighs Minnesota effort to end Operation Metro Surge, presses DOJ lawyers representing ICE Minneapolis mourns ICU nurse killed by a Border Patrol agent as a warmhearted neighbor and caregiver State, feds clash in court over preserving evidence in Alex Pretti killing How to avoid ICE entanglements when seeking health care: Doctors offer tips About Us Sahan Journal is a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to covering immigrants and communities of color in Minnesota. Support Us Get our latest stories in your inbox every Sunday. Sign up Get in touch Do you have a news tip or story idea to share with us? Did you witness an incident that you think we should write about? We want to hear from you. Send us an email at contact@sahanjournal.com. Be as detailed as possible. Leave us a message at 612-548-4344. Have questions about your recurring donation to Sahan Journal, want to change your donation, or interested in becoming a sustainer? Contact us at&nbsp; membership@sahanjournal.com . For&nbsp;advertising&nbsp;information, contact&nbsp;Sally&nbsp;Waterman, director of&nbsp;advertising&nbsp;and sponsorship, at&nbsp; swaterman@sahanjournal.com&nbsp; . Quick Links Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us &copy; 2026 Sahan Journal Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok Gift this article Close Link Copy link &nbsp; Loading Comments... &nbsp; Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website Complete your transaction Close