Title: Mexican national in ICE custody passes away at Central Arizona Correctional Complex
Published: 2025-09-02 00:00:00

FLORENCE, Ariz. — Lorenzo Antonio Batrez Vargas, a 32-year-old citizen of Mexico in ICE custody, was pronounced dead by a doctor at the Mountain Vista Medical Center in Mesa, Arizona, at 7:02 a.m. Mountain Standard Time on Aug. 31. The preliminary cause of death is unknown and remains under investigation.

Batrez Vargas was detained at the Central Arizona Correctional Complex in Florence, Arizona. Enforcement and Removal Operations Phoenix provided headquarters ERO Domestic Operations with information about his death.

On March 3, 2018, he was arrested by the Flagstaff Police Department and charged with DUI-liquor/drugs/vapors/combo, a Class 1 misdemeanor. On Sept. 17, 2018, the Flagstaff Municipal Court convicted him of this crime.

On March 28, 2024, the Flagstaff Police Department arrested Batrez Vargas and charged him with DUI with a BAC of .08 or more. On May 31, 2024, the Flagstaff Municipal Court convicted him of this crime and sentenced him to 10 days in confinement.

On Aug. 2, 2025, Flagstaff Police Department arrested Batrez Vargas and charged him with drug paraphernalia possession/use, a felony.

ERO Phoenix took Batrez Vargas into ICE custody and transported him to the Phoenix ICE office for processing. Batrez Vargas was subsequently transferred to the Central Arizona Correctional Complex in Florence.

Consistent with ICE policy, ERO notified the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the Office of Inspector General and the ICE Office of Professional Responsibility via the Integrity Coordination Center. ERO provided notification of the death to the Mexican Embassy.

ICE makes official notifications to Congress, nongovernmental organization stakeholders and the media upon an official report of a detained illegal alien’s death and posts a news release with relevant details on the ICE public website within two business days per agency policy. This information may be accessed in the ICE.gov Newsroom. Additionally, congressional requirements described in the DHS Appropriations Bill of 2018 require ICE to make public all reports regarding an in-custody death within 90 days.

These reports may be accessed on the Detainee Death Reporting page.

ICE remains committed to ensuring that all those in its custody reside in safe, secure, and humane environments. Comprehensive medical care is provided from the moment individuals arrive and throughout the entirety of their stay. All people in ICE custody receive medical, dental and mental health intake screening within 12 hours of arriving at each detention facility, a full health assessment within 14 days of entering ICE custody or arrival at a facility, access to medical appointments and 24-hour emergency care. At no time during detention is a detained illegal alien denied emergent care.