Title: Criminal illegal alien passes away at University Hospital following medical emergency at Delaney Hall Detention Facility
Published: 2025-12-18 00:00:00

NEWARK, N.J. — Jean Wilson Brutus, a 41-year-old criminal illegal alien from Haiti who was detained at Delaney Hall Detention Facility in Newark, New Jersey, passed away, Dec. 12, from suspected natural causes.

Brutus entered ICE custody on Dec. 11 after he was released from Union County Jail in Elizabeth, New Jersey, following his arrest for criminal mischief—damage to property. He also had multiple prior arrests for criminal trespassing. While at Delaney Hall Detention Facility, he experienced a medical emergency and local Emergency Medical Services was called. EMS performed life-saving measures and transported Brutus to University Hospital in Newark, New Jersey, and later the hospital pronounced him deceased on Dec. 12.

Brutus entered the United States illegally on June 20, 2023, during the Biden Administration’s border crisis at the Hidalgo Port of Entry in Hidalgo, Texas. He was then paroled him into the United States, pending immigration proceedings.

Between July 2024 to October 2024, the Elizabeth Police Department in Elizabeth, Newark arrested Brutus for criminal trespassing three times. EPD released him into the community all three times.

On Nov. 19, 2025, EPD arrested Brutus the fourth time for criminal trespassing. This charge is currently pending. On the same day, ERO Newark encountered him while detained at the Union County Jail in Elizabeth, New Jersey and lodged an immigration detainer - NUCJ subsequently released him without notifying ICE.

On Nov. 28, 2025, EPD arrested Brutus for two counts of criminal mischief – damage property, Despite, an immigration detainer, he was released to the community again.

ICE arrested Brutus on Dec. 11, 2025. Upon completion of processing, ERO Newark transferred him to the Delaney Hall Detention Facility (DHDF) in Newark, NJ.

On Dec. 11, 2025, Brutus entered ICE custody. He had no signs of distress during intake nor a medical history of cardiovascular issues.

ICE notified the Department of Homeland Security’s Office of Inspector General, ICE’s Office of Professional Responsibility and the Haitian consulate of Brutus’ death, as required by agency policy.

ICE makes official notifications to Congress, non-governmental organization stakeholders and the media upon an official report of an in-custody alien death and posts a news release with relevant details on the ICE public website. You may access this information in the ICE.gov’s Newsroom. Congressional requirements described in the DHS Appropriations Act of 2018 requires ICE to publicize all reports public regarding an in-custody deaths within 90 days. These reports may be accessed on ICE.gov’s Detainee Death Reporting page.

ICE is committed to ensuring that all those in custody reside in safe, secure, and humane environments. Comprehensive medical care is provided from the moment individuals arrive and throughout the entirety of their stay. All people in ICE custody receive medical, dental, and mental health intake screenings within 12 hours of arriving at each detention facility; a full health assessment within 14 days of entering ICE custody, or arrival at a facility; access to medical appointments; and 24-hour emergency care. At no time during detention is a detained alien denied emergency care.