Criminal illegal alien passes away at University Hospital following medical emergency at Delaney Hall Detention Facility | ICE Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( Lock Locked padlock ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. --> En Español Contact Us Quick Links INFO Due to the lapse in federal funding, this website will not be actively managed. More info --> Watch Live at 11:30 a.m. ET: Results of Nationwide Law Enforcement Effort Press Conference ICE Check-in for Aliens Get information about how to check in with your local ICE Office here . Reportándose con ICE: Obtenga información sobre cómo reportarse a su oficina local de ICE aquí . View in other languages Menu Call 1-866-DHS-2-ICE to report suspicious activity Report Crime Main Navigation " class="we-megamenu-nolink" title="Click here to open the About Us menu"> About Us Mission Who We Are Leadership History Information Library Career Opportunities ICE Fallen Officers Fact Sheets Learn facts about U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Learn More About ICE " class="we-megamenu-nolink" title="Click here to open the Enforcement and Removal Operations menu"> Enforcement and Removal Operations Identify and Arrest Criminal Alien Program Fugitive Operations Law Enforcement Partnerships 287g Program Immigration Fraud Prosecutions Detain Immigration Detainers Detention Facilities Health Service Corps Detention Management Facility Inspections Family Residential Standards Remove Removal Recalcitrant Countries Self-Deportation Immigration Enforcement Frequently Asked Questions ERO Statistics Dashboard How ICE Enforces Immigration Laws ICE identifies and apprehends removable aliens, detains these individuals and removes illegal aliens from the United States. Learn more about ERO ICE Check-in Learn more about how to check in with a local ICE office Get information about how to check in with your local ICE Office here . ERO e File A uniform platform for the filing of electronic G-28s with ERO and the scheduling of legal visits through ERO eFile’s Detention Facility Appointment Scheduler (DFAS). Learn more about ERO eFile " class="we-megamenu-nolink" title="Click here to open the Homeland Security Investigations menu"> Homeland Security Investigations Operational Priorities Protecting National Security Preventing Crimes of Exploitation Operation Identify Ensuring Public Safety Upholding the Law in Global Trade Investigating Cybercrime Combating Financial Crime Investigations Outreach Programs Partnerships Centers &amp; Labs Recognize &amp; Report Crime Securing the Homeland Combating cross-border criminal activity is a critical component of the overall safety, security and well-being of our nation. Learn more about HSI News about HSI Student and Exchange Visitor Program SEVP is a part of the National Security Investigations Division and acts as a bridge for government organizations that have an interest in information on nonimmigrants whose primary reason for coming to the United States is to be students. Learn more about SEVP " class="we-megamenu-nolink" title="Click here to open the Newsroom menu"> Newsroom News Releases and Statements Latest High-Profile Arrests Feature Stories Multimedia Social Media Speeches and Testimonies ERO Statistics Dashboard ICE's ERO officers uphold United States immigration laws by focusing on individuals who present the greatest risk to national security, public safety or border security. View the most recent statistics 2024 Year in Review ICE’s FY 2024 Annual Report View the annual report Media Inquiries Breadcrumb ICE Newsroom Criminal illegal alien passes away at University Hospital following medical emergency at Delaney Hall Detention Facility Share Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Email this Page Print this Page December 18, 2025 Newark , NJ , United States Detainee Death Notifications Criminal illegal alien passes away at University Hospital following medical emergency at Delaney Hall Detention Facility NEWARK, N.J. — Jean Wilson Brutus, a 41-year-old criminal illegal alien from Haiti who was detained at Delaney Hall Detention Facility in Newark, New Jersey, passed away, Dec. 12, from suspected natural causes. Brutus entered ICE custody on Dec. 11 after he was released from Union County Jail in Elizabeth, New Jersey, following his arrest for criminal mischief—damage to property. He also had multiple prior arrests for criminal trespassing. While at Delaney Hall Detention Facility, he experienced a medical emergency and local Emergency Medical Services was called. EMS performed life-saving measures and transported Brutus to University Hospital in Newark, New Jersey, and later the hospital pronounced him deceased on Dec. 12. Brutus entered the United States illegally on June 20, 2023, during the Biden Administration’s border crisis at the Hidalgo Port of Entry in Hidalgo, Texas. He was then paroled him into the United States, pending immigration proceedings. Between July 2024 to October 2024, the Elizabeth Police Department in Elizabeth, Newark arrested Brutus for criminal trespassing three times. EPD released him into the community all three times. On Nov. 19, 2025, EPD arrested Brutus the fourth time for criminal trespassing. This charge is currently pending. On the same day, ERO Newark encountered him while detained at the Union County Jail in Elizabeth, New Jersey and lodged an immigration detainer - NUCJ subsequently released him without notifying ICE. On Nov. 28, 2025, EPD arrested Brutus for two counts of criminal mischief – damage property, Despite, an immigration detainer, he was released to the community again. ICE arrested Brutus on Dec. 11, 2025. Upon completion of processing, ERO Newark transferred him to the Delaney Hall Detention Facility (DHDF) in Newark, NJ. On Dec. 11, 2025, Brutus entered ICE custody. He had no signs of distress during intake nor a medical history of cardiovascular issues. ICE notified the Department of Homeland Security’s Office of Inspector General, ICE’s Office of Professional Responsibility and the Haitian consulate of Brutus’ death, as required by agency policy. ICE makes official notifications to Congress, non-governmental organization stakeholders and the media upon an official report of an in-custody alien death and posts a news release with relevant details on the ICE public website. You may access this information in the ICE.gov’s Newsroom. Congressional requirements described in the DHS Appropriations Act of 2018 requires ICE to publicize all reports public regarding an in-custody deaths within 90 days. These reports may be accessed on ICE.gov’s Detainee Death Reporting page . ICE is committed to ensuring that all those in custody reside in safe, secure, and humane environments. Comprehensive medical care is provided from the moment individuals arrive and throughout the entirety of their stay. All people in ICE custody receive medical, dental, and mental health intake screenings within 12 hours of arriving at each detention facility; a full health assessment within 14 days of entering ICE custody, or arrival at a facility; access to medical appointments; and 24-hour emergency care. At no time during detention is a detained alien denied emergency care. Updated: 12/19/2025 Return to top Media Inquiries For media inquiries about ICE activities, operations, or policies, contact the ICE Office of Public Affairs at ICEMedia@ice.dhs.gov . About Us Enforcement and Removal Operations Homeland Security Investigations Newsroom ICE Contact Center Report suspicious activity: 1-866-DHS-2-ICE ICE.gov An official website of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security ICE USWDS Footer Links About ICE Accessibility FOIA Requests Privacy Policy DHS.gov Archive No FEAR Act Data Site Links Performance Reports Inspector General The White House DHS Components USA.gov Mobile Menu Bar Menu Search En Español Contact Main Navigation on Mobile Devices About Us Mission Who We Are Leadership History Information Library Career Opportunities ICE Fallen Officers Enforcement and Removal Operations Identify and Arrest Criminal Alien Program Fugitive Operations Law Enforcement Partnerships 287g Program Immigration Fraud Prosecutions Detain Immigration Detainers Detention Facilities Health Service Corps Detention Management Facility Inspections Family Residential Standards Remove Recalcitrant Countries Removal Self-Deportation Immigration Enforcement Frequently Asked Questions ERO Statistics Dashboard Homeland Security Investigations Operational Priorities Protecting National Security Preventing Crimes of Exploitation Operation Identify Ensuring Public Safety Upholding the Law in Global Trade Investigating Cybercrime Combating Financial Crime Investigations Outreach Programs Partnerships Centers &amp; Labs Recognize &amp; Report Crime Newsroom News Releases and Statements Latest High-Profile Arrests Feature Stories Multimedia Social Media Speeches and Testimonies Search Search Home Who We Are Newsroom Information Library Contact ICE Careers En Español