Man dies after 1 day in ICE custody at Newark facility, ICE says - Gothamist Gothamist A non-profit newsroom, powered by WNYC. Gothamist Listen Live Donate News Man dies after 1 day in ICE custody at Newark facility, ICE says By Ben Feuerherd Published Dec 19, 2025 Share Facebook Twitter Reddit Email Never miss a story Email address By submitting your information, you&#39;re agreeing to receive communications from New York Public Radio in accordance with our Terms . Photo by Lokman Vural Elibol/Anadolu via Getty Images By Ben Feuerherd Published Dec 19, 2025 Share Facebook Twitter Reddit Email We rely on your support to make local news available to all Make your contribution now and help Gothamist thrive in 2026. Donate today Gothamist is funded by sponsors and member donations A man who was being held in U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement custody in New Jersey died last week after he suffered an undisclosed medical emergency, federal authorities said. Jean Wilson Brutus, 41, was being held at the Delaney Hall immigration facility in Newark when he suffered the medical episode on Dec. 12, ICE officials said in a statement released Friday. Someone at the detention center called medics, who transported Brutus to a nearby hospital where he was pronounced dead, according to the statement. Newark Mayor Ras Baraka said Brutus' death raises a host of distressing questions about transparency and the conditions at the facility. “ICE's complete lack of transparency, and their demonstrated disregard for laws that ensure the safety and wellbeing of the detainees, tempts some disgusting speculation on the immorality of stripping human beings of their innate dignity,” Baraka said in a statement. In a statement, an ICE spokesperson said Brutus entered the United States from Haiti in 2023. Brutus was arrested in New Jersey a number of times for minor crimes, including criminal trespassing, before ICE arrested him on Dec. 11, according to the statement. He died after one day in ICE custody, according to the statement. Tagged immigration new jersey public safety Ben Feuerherd Ben Feuerherd covers public safety and policing for WNYC and Gothamist. He previously covered federal courts for The New York Post and The Messenger. His work has also appeared in POLITICO, the Daily Beast and NBC New York. Got a tip? Email [email&#160;protected] . Read more Gothamist is funded by sponsors and member donations Gothamist is funded by sponsors and member donations MORE news Brooklyn man charged in stabbing death of his 85-year-old grandmother The victim suffered multiple stab wounds in the Tuesday night attack. By Herb Pinder Published Jan 17, 2026 at 11:50 a.m. ET Dozens displaced after 4-alarm fire rips through southwest Yonkers The blaze started in the School Street neighborhood and quickly spread. By Ryan Kost News Dozens displaced after 4-alarm fire rips through southwest Yonkers The blaze started in the School Street neighborhood and quickly spread. By Ryan Kost Pokémon card boom draws collectors and armed robbers to one Manhattan shop By Ben Feuerherd As Trump pushes whole milk, NYC schools say they're sticking with 1% By Jessica Gould Temperatures inside Wards Island homeless shelter fell to 45 degrees, inspectors say By Karen Yi Never miss a story Catch up on the most important headlines with a roundup of essential NYC stories, delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up Email address By submitting your information, you&#39;re agreeing to receive communications from New York Public Radio in accordance with our Terms . Advertising Contact Us Our Team RSS Feed Diversity (DEI) Careers Gothamist Gothamist is a website about New York City news, arts, events and food, brought to you by New York Public Radio. Advertising Contact Us Our Team RSS Feed Diversity (DEI) Careers Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Terms Of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility ©2025 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved.