Title: Milwaukee County Judge Dugan arrested; protests outside FBI
Authors: News Digital Team, Darronté Matthews

The Brief A Milwaukee judge has been arrested by the FBI on charges of obstruction. Judge Hannah Dugan has been federally charged, accused of helping an undocumented man avoid ICE agents at the Milwaukee County Courthouse. A protest outside the FBI Milwaukee Division took place on Saturday, April 26.



Hundreds came out to show support for Milwaukee County judge Hannah Dugan on Saturday, April 26, after the FBI arrested her the day prior.

Earlier this month, prosecutors say the judge obstructed justice.

What we know:

Supporters for Dugan came out Saturday in unison. They marched in front of the FBI Milwaukee Division building in St. Francis, trying to send a message.

"Thank you so much, Judge Dugan, but just for doing your damn job," said Alan Chovoya with Freedom Road Socialist Organization.

The backstory:

Investigators say she helped Eduardo Flores-Ruiz evade U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents and escape from her courtroom. Court records show she heard ICE agents were in the hallway.

She reportedly sent the agents who said they had an administrative warrant for Flores-Ruiz to the chief judge's office down the hall.

Related article

Prosecutors say when she came back, she ushered Flores-Ruiz and his attorney out of court through a non-public hallway.

What they're saying:

Brigette Kutschma is an immigration attorney with Soberalski Immigration Law and former public defender. She said there are still a lot of questions to consider.

"I think the issue is, that Judge Dugan was raising, was whether the ICE officials had the property authority that day," Kutschma said. "Where did this take place? Does the judge have domain over her sacred courtroom? Is it a private location? Is she able to exclude certain individuals and admit others?"

Since news of Dugan's arrest broke, reaction from lawmakers and others has poured in.

Related article

"She did not obstruct justice, she obstructed fascism," State Rep. Ryan Clancy (D-Milwaukee) said.

FREE DOWNLOAD: Get breaking news alerts in the FOX LOCAL Mobile app for iOS or Android

"Obviously, these are serious charges but it’s important to remember that no one is above the law. We are actively monitoring the situation and should the charges result in a conviction, we will act. Judge Dugan’s decision to hide a dangerous and illegal immigrant was irresponsible and put public safety at risk."