Federal judge says 2-year-old US citizen appears to have been deported with mother to Honduras | CNN CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I&#x27;ve seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much appreciated. Close Ad Feedback Close icon US Crime + Justice More Crime + Justice Watch Listen Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Listen Watch Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español Crime + Justice Follow CNN US Crime + Justice World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Politics Trump Facts First CNN Polls 2026 Elections Calendar Redistricting Tracker Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear &amp; Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships CNN Underscored Electronics Fashion Beauty Health &amp; Fitness Home Reviews Deals Gifts Travel Outdoors Pets Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food &amp; Drink Stay Videos Sports Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Winter Olympics 2026 Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Watch Featured Shows &amp; Films Network TV Clips CNN Headlines CNN Shorts Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Photo Shuffle Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Subscribe Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Federal judge says 2-year-old US citizen was deported with mother to Honduras By Emma Tucker , CNN 4 min read Updated 4:35 PM EDT, Sat April 26, 2025 Link Copied! Follow: South America See your latest updates An ICE logo is seen at the US Immigration and Customs Enforcement headquarters in Washington, DC. Salwan Georges/The Washington Post/Getty Images CNN &nbsp;&mdash;&nbsp; A federal judge said Friday a 2-year-old US citizen was deported with her mother to Honduras. The Trump administration says her mother asked officials to take her with her, documents show. US District Judge Terry Doughty said the child, identified in the court documents as V.M.L., was released in Honduras Friday afternoon alongside her mother, who the judge said is an undocumented immigrant. Lawyers for the family filed an emergency petition Thursday, asking the court to order the child’s “immediate release” by the US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, saying they “lack any statutory or constitutional authority” to detain her as a US citizen, according to the petition. The child was born in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, on January 4, 2023, the petition says. The child was taken into custody by ICE Tuesday morning with her mother and her 11-year-old sister, while the mother was “attending a routine check-in” with the federal agency, according to the petition. “In the interest of dispelling our strong suspicion that the government just deported a US citizen with no meaningful process,” Judge Doughty said in the order, a hearing is scheduled on May 16 in Monroe, Louisiana. The judge added, “It is illegal and unconstitutional to deport, detain for deportation, or recommend deportation of a U.S. citizen,” citing a 2012 deportation case . The federal government, Doughty said, “contends this is all okay because the mother wishes that the child be deported with her … But the court doesn’t know that.” The court documents filed by the government opposing the petition argued that the child’s mother, “made known to ICE officials she wanted to retain custody of V.M.L.” in a handwritten note and requested for the child to go with her to Honduras. Authorities in Honduras, US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, lawyers for the family and the US Justice Department did not immediately return requests for comment. In a statement to CNN, a senior Department of Homeland Security official said the mother “made the decision to take the child with them to Honduras. It is common that parents want to be removed with their children.” “Parents are asked if they want to be removed with their children or ICE will place the children with someone the parent designates. In this case, the parent stated they wanted to be removed with the children,” the official said. The DHS, the official said, takes its “responsibility to protect children seriously and will continue to work with federal law enforcement to ensure that children are safe and protected.” Roughly an hour after the mother and her two daughters went into the agency’s office in New Orleans, the father received a call from the agency saying, “the family had all been taken to the immigration office and gave him an address,” the petition says. When the father arrived at the address, which led him to the ICE field office in New Orleans, officers gave him a paper saying the mother was “under their custody” and said they could not give him any more information but V.M.L’.s mother “would call him soon,” the petition said. An ICE officer was then in contact with the father’s attorney, informing him the mother’s deportation “was certain and he believed they were all in a hotel” but would not disclose the location, according to the petition, nor could he facilitate a legal call between the attorney and the child’s mother. The same day, the father was again contacted by an ICE officer who said the mother was in their custody and informed the father that the mother and daughters were going to be deported, court documents showed. “He heard his daughters crying and his partner crying. He reminded V.M.L.’s mother that their daughter was a US citizen and could not be deported,” the documents say. Before the father could finish providing the mother with contact information for their attorneys, he heard the ICE officer “take the phone from her and hang up the call,” according to the petition. The father then moved to give provisional custody of his two daughters to his sister-in-law, a US citizen who lives in Baton Rouge, and the mandate was notarized in Louisiana, the documents say. The petition alleges ICE refused to honor the father’s request to release V.M.L. to the sister-in-law, stating “it was not needed” because the child was already with her mother, and informed the father he would be taken into custody if he tried to pick her up. The federal government said in court documents the mother wrote in a letter she “will bring my daughter … with me to Honduras.” The government said the “man claiming to be V.M.L.’s father” has not presented or identified himself to ICE despite requests to do so, the court documents say. “V.M.L. is not at substantial risk of irreparable harm if kept with her lawful custodian mother,” the government said. Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Listen Watch US Crime + Justice World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Politics Trump Facts First CNN Polls 2026 Elections Calendar Redistricting Tracker Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear &amp; Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships CNN Underscored Electronics Fashion Beauty Health &amp; Fitness Home Reviews Deals Gifts Travel Outdoors Pets Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food &amp; Drink Stay News Videos Sports Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Winter Olympics 2026 Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Watch Featured Shows &amp; Films Network TV Clips CNN Headlines CNN Shorts Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Photo Shuffle Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Subscribe Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN US Watch Listen Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Follow CNN Download the CNN app Download the CNN app Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility &amp; CC About Subscribe Newsletters Transcripts Help Center &copy; 2026 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network. Download the CNN app Scan the QR code to download the CNN app on Google Play. Download the CNN app Scan the QR code to download the CNN app from the Apple Store.