Court Blocks ICE’s Unlawful Detention of Teens Turning 18 Skip to content We envision a nation where immigrants are embraced, communities are enriched, and justice prevails for all. Sign Up Donate Now About Us About Us Our Impact Initiatives Theory of Change Financial Information Immigration Topics Immigration Topics Immigration 101 How Immigration System Works History of Immigration Birthright Citizenship Demographics Elections Immigration and Crime Immigration Reform Immigration at the Border Refugees + Asylum Seekers Work Authorization Economic Impact The Legal System Civic Engagement Immigration Benefits and Relief Business and the Workforce Industries Full Topic List Tools &#038; Resources Tools &#038; Resources For Attorneys Practice Advisories Amicus Briefs Litigation For Policymakers Map the Impact Immigration Where You Live Beyond A Border Solution For Educators How the U.S. Immigration System Works Immigration data across the country The State of Belonging in America For Business Leaders Global Talent Chamber Network New American Fortune 500 J-1 Cultural Exchange Program Civic Health Alliance Toolkit For Advocates Take Action Volunteer The Belonging Barometer For Press Sign Up for Media Updates Press Releases Stories J-1 Visa Sponsorship Services Building Connection Building Connection Center for Inclusion & Belonging Belonging Barometer Creative Writing Contest What Immigration Issues Do Americans Hold Sacred? Storytelling Belonging Begins With Us Ways to Help Ways to Help Volunteer Corporate Partnerships Institutional Donors Events Donate Today Contact Us We envision a nation where immigrants are embraced, communities are enriched, and justice prevails for all. Home / Press Releases / Federal Court Blocks ICE’s Unlawful Detention of Immigrant Teens Turning 18 Federal Court Blocks ICE’s Unlawful Detention of Immigrant Teens Turning 18 Press Releases Published: December 12, 2025 Topics: Abuses , Border Enforcement , Detention , Interior Enforcement Share: Washington, D.C., Dec. 12, 2025 — On December 12, a federal court in D.C. ordered U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to follow a long-standing court order that protects immigrant teens from being placed in adult detention centers. The court&#8217;s order blocks a new ICE policy to automatically shuttle unaccompanied children into adult detention once they turn 18. Read the court order here and the opinion here . The order specifically covers children who originally entered the United States as unaccompanied minors and who &#8220;age out” of the custody of the Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) (the federal program that looks after unaccompanied children by placing them in shelters and then later with family and/or guardians).&nbsp;&nbsp; This federal court decision enforces a 2021 permanent injunction in Garcia Ramirez v. ICE , which requires ICE to comply with their statutory obligations by considering the least restrictive setting available for every unaccompanied child who turns18 and to make all age-outs eligible for alternatives to detention. “ This ruling makes clear that ICE cannot secretly flout the law or blatantly ignore court orders, ” said Suchita Mathur, senior litigation attorney with the American Immigration Council. “ ICE tried to detain newly-18-year-olds as a matter of course. These are kids that ICE officers have found, in almost all cases, do not pose a danger or flight risk, with sponsors, families, and community support waiting for them. This decision puts a stop to that. ” Under a new policy published October 1 , ICE told shelters and attorneys that all unaccompanied children turning 18 would be transferred to adult detention, even when they had safe homes and sponsors waiting to receive them. Adult detention threatens the teenagers’ short- and long-term development. Currently, ICE is holding a record number of people in detention, fueling overcrowding and dehumanizing conditions like lack of adequate medical care, abusive treatment , and restricted access to legal and psychological help. The court found that automatically sending teens into adult detention, without considering safer, age-appropriate alternatives, is a violation of the law. “Today’s ruling sends a powerful message: ICE can’t put teenagers in dangerous, overcrowded facilities just because they turned 18,” said Mark Fleming, associate director of federal litigation at the National Immigrant Justice Center. “There are safer, lawful options that keep young people connected to school, family, and community. That’s what the law requires, and that’s what this order restores.” &nbsp; The court’s ruling requires ICE to immediately stop following its October 1 guidance and to remove anyone placed under detention as a result. Read the court order here and the opinion here . Children Detention ICE Lawsuits Litigation Unaccompanied Children Related Resources Report: Immigration Detention Is Bigger, Harsher, and Less Accountable Than Ever Press Releases Abuses January 14, 2026 Trump Administration Targets People&nbsp;with&nbsp;No Criminal Record and Uses Detention to Pressure Them to Give Up&hellip; Read More New Cohort Selected for the Gateways for Growth Challenge Gateways for Growth Bridge Building December 15, 2025 Round VI of the Challenge Will Support Local Communities in Welcoming Immigrants WASHINGTON DC &amp;&hellip; Read More New Report: Trump’s Mass Deportation Agenda Will Deepen the Childcare Crisis Press Releases Business and the Workforce December 11, 2025 Washington, D.C., Dec. 11, 2025 — A new report from the American Immigration Council warns that&hellip; Read More Load More Take Action Urge Congress to Hold the Growing and Harsh Immigration Detention System Accountable Act Now Join us in urging your U.S. Representative and Senators to oppose any further expansion of immigration detention and to hold facilities accountable by exercising their authority to conduct in-person oversight visits to ICE detention centers, including holding facilities and other places used to detain immigrants. 70,000+ Number of people in civil immigration detention Give Today Defend Immigrant Rights, Defend Democracy Donate Today Make a Monthly Gift Sign up for our newsletter 202-507-7500 PMB2026 2001 L Street N.W., Suite 500 Washington, DC 20036 About Us Tools &#038; Resources Our Impact Building Connection J-1 Cultural Exchange Immigration Justice Campaign Reports & Fact Sheets Newsroom Events Careers Financial Information Contact American Immigration Council is a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization. EIN number 52-1549711. Privacy Policy 2026 &copy; Copyright American Immigration Council. All rights reserved.