Title: Oklahoma woman said federal agents mistakenly raided her home. Here's what we know
Authors: Laerke Christensen
Published: 2025-04-30 00:00:00

On April 29, 2025, claims (archived) began circulating that federal immigration agents had raided the wrong house in Oklahoma City, taking a family of U.S. citizens' belongings and forcing them outside while still in their underwear.

One X user screenshotted an article by KFOR, a local news channel in Oklahoma City, and wrote: "In Oklahoma City, ICE by accident, stormed into the wrong house of citizens, trashed the place, and made women/girls stand outside in the rain in their underwear. ICE also took phones, laptops, and cash savings from the family, who moved to OKC two weeks ago."

The claim also circulated on Facebook (archived), Threads (archived), Bluesky (archived) and TikTok (archived). Snopes readers wrote in and searched our site asking if the claim was true.

However, accounts of the raid differed. A U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) spokesperson told Snopes via email that only U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) carried out the raid and that its intended targets were the former residents at the address. According to KFOR, 20 federal agents from the U.S. Marshals, ICE and the FBI carried out the April 24 raid on the Oklahoma City home. DHS and KFOR reporting both said that the agents had a warrant for the address.

Snopes was not able to independently confirm other elements of the claim. KFOR anonymized "Marisa," the woman whose home was reportedly raided. We were not able to independently track down "Marisa" and verify her reported claims that she and her three daughters, who were home at the time of the raid, were U.S. citizens and that federal agents forced the family outside while still in their underwear. The DHS did not immediately return a request for comment on "Marisa's" claims.

We reached out to the FBI to ask whether its agents were involved in the raid. The bureau referred us to the Department of Homeland Security. Brady McCarron, the deputy chief of the office of public affairs for the U.S. Marshals, said via email that "There were no U.S. Marshals involved in this incident. As such, we are unable to comment on the situation and we have no information on [the] family or the return of what was seized."

'Marisa' said agents seized tech, cash, despite warrant naming ex-residents

"Marisa" told KFOR that the agents who raided her home had a warrant, but that the people named on it no longer lived at the address. The DHS statement corroborated this:

ICE was carrying out a court authorized search warrant for a large-scale human smuggling investigation. The case has been accepted for federal prosecution in the Northern District of Oklahoma. The search warrants included the location of an address where U.S. citizens recently moved. The previous residents were the intended targets.

KFOR's video report showed a document titled "Search and Seizure Warrant" with a visible case number, and implied, though did not explicitly confirm, that this was the warrant agents used when searching the Oklahoma City house. The warrant was issued, it appeared, by the Western District Court of Oklahoma on April 23, the day before the raid. We were not able to locate an online copy of the warrant to check if this was the one agents used.

We reached out to Spencer Humphrey, the journalist who covered the story for KFOR, to ask for a copy of the warrant.

Generally, law enforcement authorities in the U.S. can search homes and seize items with a warrant signed by a judge or a magistrate. A warrant will usually list who or what law enforcement is searching for and where, and separate rules govern when law enforcement officers are allowed to seize items not listed on a warrant. This is usually if items are in plain or public view and their incriminating nature "immediately apparent."

It was not clear how authorities justified the alleged seizure of phones, laptops and money from "Marisa's" home if she and her family (and, thus, their belongings) were not listed on the warrant.