4 ICE detention deaths in just 10 days into the New Year | Detention Watch Network Skip to main content Contact Us Membership Directory Member Account Search form Search Menu Main menu About Membership Directory Jobs and Opportunities Membership Become a Member Renew Your Membership Membership FAQs Member Conference Member Account Login The Issues Detention 101 Mandatory Detention Detention Quotas Family Detention Detention Oversight Financial Incentives Shadow Prisons Alternatives Take Action COVID-19: #FreeThemAll #CommunitiesNotCages #DefundHate Organize Connect Advocate Donate Sign Up Visit Action Tuesday Pressroom Reports Voices from Detention Ways to Give Donate Now 4 ICE detention deaths in just 10 days into the New Year For Immediate Release:&nbsp; Monday, January 12, 2026 Washington, DC — While communities in Minneapolis and across the country mourn the death of Renee Nicole Good, who was executed by ICE last Wednesday, ICE has revealed that four people died in its custody in just the first 10 days of the New Year: Parady La, 46, was detained at Federal Detention Center (FDC) Philadelphia in Pennsylvania and died on January 9 Luis Beltran Yanez–Cruz, 68, was detained at the Imperial Regional Detention Center in California and died on January 6 Geraldo Lunas Campos, 55, was detained at Camp East Montana (Ft Bliss) in Texas and died on January 3 Luis Gustavo Nunez Caceres, 42, detained at the Joe Corley Processing Center in Texas and died on January 5 Setareh Ghandehari, Advocacy Director at Detention Watch Network, released the following statement: “ICE kills — full stop. Whether ICE is targeting people in the streets, where they work or live or behind closed doors in one of its nearly 200 abuse-ridden detention centers across the country – ICE is an inherently violent agency jeopardizing families and community safety. Decades of evidence illustrate that no one is safe in ICE custody. ICE’s immigration detention system deprives people of freedom, isolates people away from loved ones, and subjects people to abysmal conditions, including inadequate medical care and mental health services, inedible food, and racist abuse. Under the Trump administration’s massive expansion of the detention system, loss of life in ICE custody is truly staggering. In 2025, 31 people died in ICE custody — an all-time high. Now, there have been four deaths in ICE custody in just 10 days of 2026. It’s devastating, enraging, and must change now. Currently the Fiscal Year 2026 appropriations bill is being negotiated in Congress, where a proposal is on the table for ICE to receive even more funding on top of the unprecedented $45 billion that ICE was given last year through the reconciliation bill. As people across the country are waking up to ICE’s atrocities, we must demand transformative change from our elected officials at all levels. ICE agents tear families apart, deteriorate community safety, and cause chaos wherever they go - whether it's Minneapolis, Chicago, Los Angeles or beyond. We demand that Congress stop funding ICE, that ICE leave our communities, and that ICE detention centers shut down for good. We must collectively call for an end to the ICE age to keep people and communities safe.” ### Detention Watch Network (DWN) is a national coalition building power through collective advocacy, grassroots organizing, and strategic communications to abolish immigration detention in the United States. Pressroom Reports Voices from Detention Stay Informed Sign up to receive reports, action alerts, and our newsletter. Sign Up Now Donate Help strengthen a network of advocates and activists around the country fighting for the dignity and rights of immigrants in detention. Donate Now Stay Informed Sign up to receive reports, action alerts, and our newsletter. Sign Up Now Donate Help strengthen a network of advocates and activists around the country fighting for the dignity and rights of immigrants in detention. Donate Now Contact Us Contact Us View Jobs &amp; Internships Privacy Policy Detention 101 View the Issues Member Directory View Directory Connect with Us Part of the International Detention Coalition .