ICE detainee who escaped Colorado facility during power outage is recaptured | CNN CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I&#x27;ve seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much appreciated. Close Ad Feedback Close icon US Crime + Justice More Crime + Justice Watch Listen Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Listen Watch Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español Crime + Justice Follow CNN US Crime + Justice World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Politics Trump Facts First CNN Polls 2026 Elections Calendar Redistricting Tracker Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear &amp; Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships CNN Underscored Electronics Fashion Beauty Health &amp; Fitness Home Reviews Deals Gifts Travel Outdoors Pets Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food &amp; Drink Stay Videos Sports Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Winter Olympics 2026 Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Watch Featured Shows &amp; Films Network TV Clips CNN Headlines CNN Shorts Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Photo Shuffle Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Subscribe Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN One of the ICE detainees who escaped Colorado facility during power outage is recaptured By Hanna Park , CNN 2 min read Published 4:22 AM EDT, Sat March 22, 2025 Link Copied! Follow: Federal agencies See your latest updates The GEO Detention Center in Aurora, Colorado, in 2020. David Zalubowski/AP/File CNN &nbsp;&mdash;&nbsp; One of two US Immigration and Customs Enforcement detainees who escaped during a power outage at a Colorado detention facility earlier this week was captured Friday, authorities said. Joel Gonzalez-Gonzalez was taken into custody by Adams County Sheriff’s personnel early Friday morning, ICE’s Denver office said in a statement, noting Gonzalez-Gonzalez will remain in ICE custody pending “criminal & immigration proceedings.” The arrest was made about 12 miles from the ICE detention facility in the Denver suburb of Aurora, where Gonzalez-Gonzalez and another detainee escaped Tuesday night. The two are believed to have walked out of a set of doors that opened during a power outage. The other person who escaped remains at large. Gonzalez-Gonzalez, who is from Mexico, was detained at the ICE detention facility after first being held in a jail in Adams County last month on local criminal charges, including second-degree motor vehicle theft, Adams County Sheriff’s spokesperson Sgt. Adam Sherman told the Associated Press . Demonstrators hold a rally and march to protest a recent increase of activity in the area by Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents on February 1, in Waukegan, Illinois. Scott Olson/Getty Images Related article Trump administration sues Illinois and Chicago over immigrant sanctuary policies CNN reached out to the sheriff’s office for further details. Gonzalez-Gonzalez called authorities to turn himself in and agreed to share information on his fellow escapee in exchange for having his case dismissed, his public defender said in court Friday, according to CNN affiliate KUSA . In its statement announcing the arrest, ICE thanked the Adams County Sheriff’s Office “for the partnership with common goal of keeping the community safe!” Earlier this week, federal and local authorities offered different versions of the response to the escape. In a statement sent to the AP Thursday about the escape, ICE said law enforcement authorities were notified immediately but declined to help in the search. Federal officials and Republican lawmakers have criticized what are often known as sanctuary policies in places including Denver that limit cooperation with federal immigration enforcement. Last month the Trump administration sued the city of Chicago and the broader state of Illinois over their immigration enforcement policies. The Aurora Police Department disputed ICE’s claims about the timeline of this week’s escape, saying they weren’t notified until roughly two hours after the men were discovered missing, and over four hours after they were believed to have fled the ICE facility. Aurora police said they have an agreement with the private company that runs the ICE detention center to help with escapees, but only if they are notified within 15 minutes of an escape. Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Listen Watch US Crime + Justice World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Politics Trump Facts First CNN Polls 2026 Elections Calendar Redistricting Tracker Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear &amp; Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships CNN Underscored Electronics Fashion Beauty Health &amp; Fitness Home Reviews Deals Gifts Travel Outdoors Pets Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food &amp; Drink Stay News Videos Sports Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Winter Olympics 2026 Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Watch Featured Shows &amp; Films Network TV Clips CNN Headlines CNN Shorts Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Photo Shuffle Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Subscribe Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN US Watch Listen Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Follow CNN Download the CNN app Download the CNN app Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility &amp; CC About Subscribe Newsletters Transcripts Help Center &copy; 2026 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network. Download the CNN app Scan the QR code to download the CNN app on Google Play. Download the CNN app Scan the QR code to download the CNN app from the Apple Store.