Title: Canadian national in ICE custody passes away
Published: 2025-06-25 00:00:00

MIAMI — Johnny Noviello, a 49-year-old citizen of Canada in the custody of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, was pronounced deceased by the Miami Fire Rescue Department June 23 at 1:36 p.m. The cause of death is still under investigation.

Noviello was being detained at the Bureau of Prisons Federal Detention Center pending removal proceedings when he was found unresponsive June 23, at 12:54 p.m. Medical staff responded immediately and began administering cardiopulmonary resuscitation, automated external defibrillator shock and called 911.

Noviello entered the United States Jan. 2, 1988, in a legal visa status. He became a lawful permanent resident Oct. 24, 1991. On Oct. 12, 2023, he was convicted in Volusia County for racketeering, trafficking in Oxycodone 7-14 Grams, trafficking in illegal drugs 4 to 14 Grams, trafficking in Hydrocodone, and unlawful use two-way communication device facilitate commission of crime and sentenced to 12 months in prison. On May 15, 2025, he was arrested by ICE at the Florida Department of Corrections Probation office, issued a notice to appear and charged with removability, having been convicted of a violation of (or a conspiracy or attempt to violate) any law or regulation of a State, the United States, or a foreign country, relating to a controlled substance (as defined in Section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. 802), other than a single offense involving possession for one's own use of 30 grams or less of marijuana, as a non-immigrant overstay.

Consistent with ICE policy, ERO notified the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the Office of Inspector General, and the ICE Office of Professional Responsibility via the Integrity Coordination Center. ERO provided telephone notification of the death to the Consulate of Canada.

ICE makes official notifications to Congress, nongovernmental organization stakeholders, and the media upon an official report of a detained illegal alien’s death and posts a news release with relevant details on the ICE public website within two business days per agency policy. This information may be accessed in the ICE.gov Newsroom. Additionally, congressional requirements described in the DHS Appropriations Bill of 2018 require ICE to make public all reports regarding an in-custody death within 90 days.

These reports may be accessed on the Detainee Death Reporting page.

ICE remains committed to ensuring that all those in its custody reside in safe, secure, and humane environments. Comprehensive medical care is provided from the moment individuals arrive and throughout the entirety of their stay. All people in ICE custody receive medical, dental and mental health intake screening within 12 hours of arriving at each detention facility, a full health assessment within 14 days of entering ICE custody or arrival at a facility, access to medical appointments and 24-hour emergency care. At no time during detention is a detained illegal alien denied emergent care.