Title: Conditions inside Northwest ICE Processing Center 'a nightmare'
Published: 2025-10-31 08:21:41

911 calls originating from the detention center frequently ask for help treating detainees for medical issues they cannot handle.

Example video title will go here for this video

Example video title will go here for this video

To stream KING 5 on your phone, you need the KING 5 app.

TACOMA, Wash. — Immigrant rights advocates are raising alarms about what they call dangerous and inhumane conditions inside the Northwest ICE processing center in Tacoma.

Public records obtained by KING 5 show a pattern: detainees suffering seizures, chest pain or a mental health crisis. Medical staff inside, are constantly calling for help, themselves.

"Caller what are you reporting in medical call?" a dispatcher can be heard in a call on January 23, 2025. "Hi, we have a 22 year old male patient having a seizure," a nurse responds.

"What's going on caller? Yeah this person fell and has symptoms of concussion, so the doctor wants him sent out," another nurse said. "30-year-old male."

"It was a nightmare," Fernando Rocha said. Rocha knows first-hand, what it's like beyond the barbed wire.

"My world crumbled, in there," he said. "That's not my world, I came from art and theater and education."

Rocha came to the United States fleeing Brazil, dreaming of theater. In July, he was on his way to Juanita High School for his work as a theater manager there, when he was pulled out of his vehicle, and arrested by ICE.

"I didn't know what was happening, I thought I was being kidnapped," Rocha said.

ICE took him to the detention center in Tacoma and said Rocha overstayed his visa. Rocha filed an asylum case one day before his tourist visa expired. He has no criminal history in the U.S. or in Brazil.

"It was the worst experience of my life," he said.

He spent two weeks detained.

"First thing they do is take all your property, and they take your clothes they dress you with a uniform, even the underwear they will provide and you must wear," he said.

And when he got sick he said their response was insulting.

"They gave me Tylenol," he said.

Josefina Mora-Cheung is an organizer with La Resistencia. The nonprofit has monitored the Northwest ICE Processing Center since 2014 and has been a leader in hearing out detainees' concerns and bringing public attention to them.

"They're usually given Advil, for everything," Mora-Cheung said. "Cold? Advil. Kidney problems? Advil. Anything, they just want to prescribe pain killers and are not fully equipped to be able to handle the medical concerns that people have."

She described a man who suffered irreparable damages.

"He has diabetes was refused the treatments that he needed and he actually lost his vision, and now he needs to be on kidney dialysis and they refuse to take him to the hospital because they claim the government shut down they're not able to take him to the hospital," Mora-Cheung added.

Victor, who is in custody right now was on a hunger strike when we spoke, protesting conditions inside.

"I have three times covid, five times infection of pulmonary, and they never give it to you anything good," he said via a video call set up through a paid system. "They only give you a packet of salt and you gotta rinse your throat, that's it."

He's been detained since April of 2024 and he said meals are easy to skip because sometimes they don't come for hours.

"It's happened where people get meals at two to three in the morning. Which is not a meal time, it's a midnight snack," Mora-Cheung said. "This is affecting people's health and especially for people who have medical concerns."

Mora-Cheung said long-term detention, aggravated by poor medical care, scarce food and outdoor access, are leading to mental health crises.

Between February and April, the calls KING 5 requested showed medical responses for what seemed like three different suicide attempts by detainees.

There was a call detailing an incident in which a detainee jumped from the upper tier down to the lower tier. Another call said a man tried twice to hang himself.

Rocha says the guards would frequently cancel outdoor time, limiting access to fresh air and sunshine: key contributors to mental well-being.

"They have a schedule to go to the yard once a week," he said. "Sometimes they cancel because of anything that could happen."

We have reached out to ICE's local representative as well as the national media reps for ICE regarding these concerns, but have not heard back.

As for Rocha, he's back in school, teaching, and working with students in theater. However, he has an ankle monitor on, which beeps to alert him to low-battery status at inconvenient times of the day.

It's a reminder that he's free to roam but not free to live without boundaries.

"[I want to] tell my story, beyond my own, my ego and my figure," he said. "To bring to light what is happening with a lot of people that is going through this experience."

Rocha said his attorney advised him that the fastest way for him to get status in the United States is to apply for a Trump Gold card. President Trump announced this immigration initiative a few months ago, saying it would allow people to buy their Permanent Residency for $1 million.