Agents Tear Gas, Detain Demonstrators Outside Broadview ICE Facility During Friday Protest Real Chicago stories start in your neighborhood Get a daily digest of stories from all neighborhoods across Chicago. On Sundays, you'll get our reporters’ best of the week, highlighting the people and places that make our neighborhoods home. Sign up Real Chicago stories start in your neighborhood Get a daily digest of stories from all neighborhoods across Chicago. On Sundays, you'll get our reporters’ best of the week, highlighting the people and places that make our neighborhoods home. Sign up Real Chicago stories start in your neighborhood Get a daily digest of stories from all neighborhoods across Chicago. On Sundays, you'll get our reporters’ best of the week, highlighting the people and places that make our neighborhoods home. Sign up Close SUBSCRIBE Sign In Search for: Search Latest Stories Neighborhoods Open dropdown menu Austin, Garfield Park, North Lawndale Belmont Cragin, Hermosa Beverly, Mount Greenwood, Morgan Park Bridgeport, Chinatown, McKinley Park Open dropdown menu Gage Park, Brighton Park McKinley Park Bronzeville, Near South Side Downtown Open dropdown menu Loop River North, Gold Coast, Near North Side South Loop West Loop Edgebrook, Edison Park, Sauganash Englewood, Chatham, Auburn Gresham Open dropdown menu Ashburn Hyde Park, Woodlawn, South Shore Jefferson Park, Portage Park, Norwood Park Open dropdown menu O&#8217;Hare Lakeview, Wrigleyville, Northalsted Open dropdown menu Roscoe Village Lincoln Park, Old Town Lincoln Square, North Center, Irving Park Open dropdown menu Albany Park Ravenswood Logan Square, Humboldt Park, Avondale Midway, West Lawn Pilsen, Little Village, Back of the Yards Open dropdown menu Back of the Yards Roseland, Pullman South Chicago, East Side Open dropdown menu Hegewisch Uptown, Edgewater, Rogers Park Open dropdown menu Andersonville Wicker Park, Bucktown, West Town Arts &#038; Culture Investigations Newsletters Podcasts Donate Shop Open dropdown menu Merch Photos Facebook Page Instagram Twitter Bluesky Threads TikTok Close Search Latest Stories Neighborhoods Austin, Garfield Park, North Lawndale Belmont Cragin, Hermosa Beverly, Mount Greenwood, Morgan Park Bridgeport, Chinatown, McKinley Park Gage Park, Brighton Park McKinley Park Bronzeville, Near South Side Downtown Loop River North, Gold Coast, Near North Side South Loop West Loop Edgebrook, Edison Park, Sauganash Englewood, Chatham, Auburn Gresham Ashburn Hyde Park, Woodlawn, South Shore Jefferson Park, Portage Park, Norwood Park O&#8217;Hare Lakeview, Wrigleyville, Northalsted Roscoe Village Lincoln Park, Old Town Lincoln Square, North Center, Irving Park Albany Park Ravenswood Logan Square, Humboldt Park, Avondale Midway, West Lawn Pilsen, Little Village, Back of the Yards Back of the Yards Roseland, Pullman South Chicago, East Side Hegewisch Uptown, Edgewater, Rogers Park Andersonville Wicker Park, Bucktown, West Town Arts &#038; Culture Investigations Newsletters Podcasts Donate Shop Merch Photos Our Mission Board of Directors Our Team Contact Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Skip to content Menu Facebook Page Instagram Twitter Bluesky Threads TikTok Block Club Chicago Your Neighborhood News Site SUBSCRIBE Sign In Open Search Search for: Search SUBSCRIBE Menu Sign In Latest Stories Neighborhoods Open dropdown menu Austin, Garfield Park, North Lawndale Belmont Cragin, Hermosa Beverly, Mount Greenwood, Morgan Park Bridgeport, Chinatown, McKinley Park Open dropdown menu Gage Park, Brighton Park McKinley Park Bronzeville, Near South Side Downtown Open dropdown menu Loop River North, Gold Coast, Near North Side South Loop West Loop Edgebrook, Edison Park, Sauganash Englewood, Chatham, Auburn Gresham Open dropdown menu Ashburn Hyde Park, Woodlawn, South Shore Jefferson Park, Portage Park, Norwood Park Open dropdown menu O&#8217;Hare Lakeview, Wrigleyville, Northalsted Open dropdown menu Roscoe Village Lincoln Park, Old Town Lincoln Square, North Center, Irving Park Open dropdown menu Albany Park Ravenswood Logan Square, Humboldt Park, Avondale Midway, West Lawn Pilsen, Little Village, Back of the Yards Open dropdown menu Back of the Yards Roseland, Pullman South Chicago, East Side Open dropdown menu Hegewisch Uptown, Edgewater, Rogers Park Open dropdown menu Andersonville Wicker Park, Bucktown, West Town Arts &#038; Culture Investigations Newsletters Podcasts Donate Shop Open dropdown menu Merch Photos Topics Business Block Club Eats LGBTQ+ News Weather Things To Do Openings &#038; Closings Neighborhood Maps Posted in Citywide Agents Tear Gas, Detain Demonstrators Outside Broadview ICE Facility During Friday Protest Large crowds gathered to protest early Friday and later that evening outside of a U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement facility in Broadview. by Charles Thrush , Leigh Giangreco and Alex V. Hernandez September 19, 2025 Updated September 20, 2025 Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Credibility: Original Reporting On the Ground Sources Cited Original Reporting This article contains new, firsthand information uncovered by its reporter(s). This includes directly interviewing sources and research/analysis of primary source documents. On the Ground Indicates that a Newsmaker/Newsmakers was/were physically present to report the article from some/all of the location(s) it concerns. Sources Cited As a news piece, this article cites verifiable, third-party sources which have all been thoroughly fact-checked and deemed credible by the Newsroom. Fireworks are ignited during an evening protest outside an immigration detention facility in Broadview on Sept. 19. Credit: Audrey Richardson for Block Club Chicago BROADVIEW — Federal agents detained demonstrators while tear gassing and shooting pepper spray bullets and flash bang grenades at others throughout a series of large Friday protests outside of an immigrant processing center in suburban Broadview. The first sizable crowds assembled early Friday outside of the barricaded U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement facility, 1930 Beach St. in Broadview, to protest the Trump administration&#8217;s Operation Midway Blitz and Operation At Large campaigns in the Chicago area. Agents repeatedly attacked demonstrators, protesters said; an agent unholstered his gun while he stood near protesters during one scuffle, and protesters said they were pepper sprayed unprovoked at points. By early afternoon, ICE said it had arrested three demonstrators that it accused of blocking the entrance to the Broadview building and assaulting agents, according to CBS2 . Later Friday, a fourth person was seen being taken into custody after a shoving match with an agent in which she at one point was pushed to the ground. That agent had to be held back on multiple occasions by his peers as he made movements toward other protesters who continued cursing at him. About 15 minutes after the woman&#8217;s arrest, an ambulance arrived at the facility and took her to a nearby hospital. It wasn&#8217;t clear whether she remained in custody. “We were assaulted by ICE officers,” said A’Keisha, a protester leading chants with a megaphone. “They pushed people to the ground and shot us with pepper spray balls while we have remained peaceful.” The agents assaulted protesters repeatedly starting in the early morning, with the scuffles coming as agents tried to drive vehicles — some apparently containing detained people — in and out of the facility while protesters tried to block the drivers. Agents arrest a demonstrator during a scuffle between law enforcement and protesters outside U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement&#8217;s Broadview facility on Sept. 19, 2025. Credit: Audrey Richardson for Block Club Chicago One altercation came just after 6 a.m. when agents shot several demonstrators with pepper balls and detained others. About 8:30 a.m., ICE and border patrol agents in unmarked vehicles opened the gates and slowly drove into a crowd of demonstrators who were blocking the exit. Listen 🎧 Chicago Under Siege &#8212; How Operation Midway Blitz Changed Our City Episode play icon Chicago Under Siege &#8212; How Operation Midway Blitz Changed Our City Load More Search Results placeholder Previous Episode Show Episodes List Next Episode Agents clad head-to-toe in military gear — some carrying large guns — tossed cans of tear gas into the crowd while an officer on the roof of the building fired off pepper balls. Another agent with a camera could be seen on the roof. Officers — who yelled orders muffled by their gas masks — pushed several protesters onto the ground and onto the hood of an ICE vehicle. At least one officer was seen with his gun unholstered and out at his side while he stood near the protesters. “I&#8217;ve seen shocking violence,” said Evanston Mayor Daniel Biss, who was out with protesters. “I mean, throwing people to the ground, pepper balls, tear gas. … It seems gratuitous, right? They&#8217;re trying to intimidate. They&#8217;ve got guys up there on the roof with cameras. &#8220;They&#8217;re trying to remind people that this is an administration that names and then targets its political enemies for physical and economic violence.” Tear gas was released into a crowd of protesters outside an ICE processing facility in suburban Broadview on Sept. 19, 2025. Credit: Vincent D. Johnson/Block Club Chicago Activist Kat Abughazaleh — who, like Biss, is running to lead Illinois&#8217; 9th congressional district — said federal agents threw her to the ground. A federal agent shot demonstrator Sam Spear in his mouth with a pepper spray ball. Credit: Charles Thrush/Block Club Chicago “Thank you all for being here every Friday in support of the marginalized people that are inside,&#8221; Abughazaleh told the crowd. &#8220;We need to stand up for the federal government, so everyone across can see us take back our government from those who hate us.” Another incident occurred about 11 a.m., when someone in an ICE van drove into the facility with at least two detained people. The crowd of protesters had shrunk by about half, but agents pepper sprayed remaining protesters unprovoked, said Scott Spear, one of the demonstrators. An agent also shot Spear in his lip with a pepper ball, he said; an hour later, he was still bleeding. Speaking at an unrelated press conference in Chicago, Mayor Brandon Johnson said the city has been providing Know Your Rights information to residents and has emphasized people&#8217;s right to protest in recent weeks “You can&#8217;t have a democracy if the people of this country cannot be permitted the authority to peacefully assemble and to petition its government,&#8221; Johnson said. &#8220;That&#8217;s what people are doing right now.&#8221; RELATED: Your Rights When It Comes To ICE: How To Protect Yourself, Your Neighbors As Federal Agents Arrive A man is tackled and taken into custody by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers as he tried to stop a pair of vehicles from exiting the facility in Broadview on Friday Sept. 19, 2025. Tear gas canisters and pepper-filled pellets were deployed to clear the area. Credit: Vincent D. Johnson/Block Club Chicago The facility serves as a processing center for people ICE has arrested. Detained individuals are taken from the facility to detention centers across the country. Chicagoans have reported more sightings of federal immigration agents and more people being detained. In response, more people have been showing up at protests outside the Broadview detention center, hoping to help immigrant neighbors and raise awareness of what&#8217;s happening. The Associated Press reported Friday that immigration enforcement officials had arrested almost 550 people as part of its Chicago-area operations. Around noon, agents assembled into a line formation in front of the facility&#8217;s front gate. Gregory Bovino, a chief patrol agent for Border Patrol who led a similar enforcement campaign in Los Angeles, stood in the center of the line as protesters heckled the federal officers. Throughout the late morning, agents fired pepper balls at protesters standing near DHS vehicles and the gate to the processing center. An agent sprayed pepper spray directly into the eyes of demonstrator Bryan Brannon, who later received medical attention form local law enforcement. &#8220;I want to put my body on the line for those who can&#8217;t,&#8221; Brannon said shortly before he was sprayed. The protest swelled to about 150 demonstrators and tensions raised again by Friday evening, with at least two people seen being arrested and agents again firing pepper balls at the crowd. Matthew Perchess of Niles stripped off his second shirt of the day, which was soaked with a mixture of water and pepper spray. A red, quarter-sized welt on his lower left abdomen matched the red heart tattooed on his chest.&nbsp; “They shot me three times in the back,” said Perchess, who pointed out that the agents’ pepper balls had left a deep mark on him, despite the heavy vest he wore to protect himself.&nbsp; Flash bang grenades are fired at protesters outside the ICE immigrant processing center in Broadview on Sept. 19, 2025. Credit: Audrey Richardson for Block Club Chicago At one point Friday evening, protesters took a knee to remember Silverio Villegas Gonzalez, a Mexican immigrant shot and killed by an ICE agent during a traffic stop last week in Franklin Park. But a moment later, protesters shouted “Roof, roof, roof!” and pepper balls rained down again. As agents geared up in gas masks, Evanston resident Bryan Vaidis Brannon paced in front of the fence smoking a cigarette. He was shirtless, wearing only a pair of goggles and the scrubs he got earlier that afternoon at Loyola Hospital after an agent pepper sprayed him in the face for taunting them, he said. About 20 officers marched toward the protesters, a cloud of smoke obscuring them. They threw a flash bang grenade at the crowd while agents on the roof fired pepper balls. One demonstrator volleyed a flash bang back at the officers while red fireworks ignited in the middle of the street. Jovany Parra, of Chicago, needed a half hour to feel well after a tear gas canister burst beneath his feet late Friday evening. He said he saw the canister launch at him and then separate into three pieces before a peppery explosion choked him. “I couldn’t breathe. I couldn’t see,” said Parra, whose friend, KP, had aided him as he recovered. “It’s definitely the worst I’ve experienced at a protest,” KP added.&nbsp; The two friends, both first-generation Mexican Americans, were motivated to attend the protest after last week’s killing of Villegas Gonzalez. “Because he looks like us,” KP said. RELATED :&nbsp; ‘Come With Me To Get Arrested’: This Chicago Lawyer Wants To Help You Fight Back Against ICE Federal agents shout at protesters outside U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement&#8217;s Broadview facility on Sept. 19, 2025. Credit: Audrey Richardson for Block Club Chicago A protester confronts a line of law enforcement outside U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement&#8217;s Broadview facility on Sept. 19, 2025. Credit: Audrey Richardson for Block Club Chicago Agents detain a protester outside U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement&#8217;s Broadview facility on Sept. 19, 2025. Credit: Audrey Richardson for Block Club Chicago A federal immigration agent grips a firearm while demonstrators protest at U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement&#8217;s Broadview facility on Sept. 19, 2025. Credit: Audrey Richardson for Block Club Chicago Credit: Vincent D. Johnson/Block Club Chicago Credit: Vincent D. Johnson/Block Club Chicago Agents detain a demonstrator outside the ICE processing center in Broadview on Sept. 19, 2025. Credit: Audrey Richardson for Block Club Chicago Support Local News! Subscribe to Block Club Chicago , an independent, 501(c)(3), journalist-run newsroom. Every dime we make funds reporting from Chicago’s neighborhoods. Already subscribe?&nbsp; Click here to gift a subscription , or you can support Block Club with a tax-deductible donation. Listen to the Block Club Chicago podcast: Listen On Apple Podcasts Listen On Spotify Is There Any Way Out Of Chicago&#8217;s Horrible Parking Meter Deal? Episode play icon Is There Any Way Out Of Chicago&#8217;s Horrible Parking Meter Deal? Episode play icon The 28-Year-Old Breaking Birding Records In Chicago Episode play icon Good. Better. Best. Grater &#8212; The Bears’ Wild Ride Continues Episode play icon As Crime Rates Fall, Domestic Homicides Are Surging In Chicago. Why? Episode play icon Bears. Packers. Grate night? Or Does The Pack Still Own Da Bears? UPDATE: DAAAAAAAAA BEARS Load More Search Results placeholder Previous Episode Show Episodes List Next Episode Show Podcast Information Tagged: Immigration ,&nbsp; Operation Midway Blitz Post navigation Previous DePaul Student Bottled His Own Drinks For Classmates. Now He’s Building An Agua Fresca Empire Next From Steering A Bus To Splitting Iron, CTA Workers Show Off Skills At Annual Jamboree Community Send News Tips FAQ/Help About Us Our Team Board of Directors Free Text Alerts Staff Diversity Report 2024 Annual Report Support Us! Donate to Block Club Chicago More Ways to Give Manage My Account Advertise Our Supporters Jobs Media Kit EIN: 82-3844275 Block Club Chicago is a nonprofit news organization dedicated to delivering reliable, nonpartisan and essential coverage of Chicago’s diverse neighborhoods. &copy; 2026 Block Club Chicago Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook Page Instagram Twitter Bluesky Threads TikTok Sign in Close Enter the code sent to your email. Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Create an account Sign in to an existing account Go back Continue Set a password (optional) Terms of Service . Sign up for newsletters Close Get the best of Block Club Chicago directly in your email inbox. Sending to: Citywide Morning Newsletter A daily digest of the top news from across all neighborhoods of Chicago: our best coverage from every corner of the city and the most important stories for all residents and guests. Continue Gift this article Close Link Copy link