Renee Good killed by ICE agent in Minneapolis | MPR News Skip to Main Content Skip to audio player to listen live Stay Curious. Stay Connected. Mail Newsletters ♡ Donate Now Menu Search Search Sign in Menu Programs &amp; Podcasts Schedule Ways to Give Search Sign in Create a Free MPR news profile for you Sign up Close First Name Last Name Email Address Create User Name Create Password * Password must be at least 8 characters and contain one uppercase letter, one lowercase letter, one number and one symbol. Create Account Already have an account? Sign in By submitting, you consent that you are at least 18 years of age and to receive information about MPR&#x27;s or APMG entities&#x27; programs and offerings. The personally identifying information you provide will not be sold, shared, or used for purposes other than to communicate with you about MPR, APMG entities, and its sponsors. You may opt-out at any time clicking the unsubscribe link at the bottom of any email communication. View our Privacy Policy . Welcome back to news for you Sign in to your profile Close Username Password Forgot Password? Sign in New to MPR News? Sign up Welcome back to news for you Reset Password Close Enter the username on file and we&#x27;ll send you a code to reset your password. Username submit request Still require assistance or not sure what your User Name is? Contact us Welcome back to news for you Email Verification A verification code has been emailed to Verification code Confirm your account Still awaiting the code? Send another The fatal shooting of Renee Macklin Good MPR News Staff Minneapolis January 7, 2026 10:45 AM Updated: January 7, 2026 9:06 PM Renee Macklin Good shot and killed by ICE agent, eyewitnesses say she posed ‘no threat’ A bullet hole is visible in the windshield of a crashed vehicle on Portland Avenue in Minneapolis after an ICE officer shot and killed an observer on Wednesday. Ben Hovland | MPR News Play Listen MPR News reporter Matt Sepic with the latest information on the shooting of Renee Good Go Deeper. Close Create an account or log in to save stories. Log in Create a free Account Like this? Close Thanks for liking this story! We have added it to a list of your favorite stories. Show me! Save Share X (twitter.com) Facebook Mail The latest on ICE in Minnesota Judge expects to rule soon on order compelling ICE to retain evidence in Pretti&#x27;s killing ICE agents are trained in CPR. They didn’t use it on Renee Macklin Good Renee Macklin Good’s wife says she nurtured kindness Program Schedule Station Directory Providing Support for MPR. Learn More