Dozens arrested following ICE protests in San Francisco; 2 officers hurt, buildings vandalized - CBS San Francisco Latest U.S. Winter Storm Minneapolis Shooting World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds Bay Area | News Weather Sports Video Bay Area Top News SF/Peninsula News East Bay News South Bay News North Bay News Bay Area Crime Tech Health Politics LGBTQ Entertainment KPIX Special Reports First Alert Weather Radars &amp; Maps All Sports CBS Sports HQ San Francisco 49ers San Francisco Giants Golden State Warriors Oakland Athletics San Jose Sharks Cal Stanford College Sports Station Info KPIX What's On KPIX Contests &amp; Promotions Advertise With Us Contact Us Download the App Galleries Memorials Watch CBS News San Francisco &amp; Peninsula News Dozens arrested following ICE protests in San Francisco; 2 officers hurt, buildings vandalized By Carlos E. Casta&ntilde;eda Carlos E. Casta&ntilde;eda Senior Editor, News &amp; Social Media Carlos E. Casta&ntilde;eda is a senior editor of news and social media for CBS Bay Area. Read Full Bio Carlos E. Casta&ntilde;eda Updated on: June 9, 2025 / 2:29 PM PDT / CBS San Francisco Add CBS News on Google More than 150 were arrested at immigration enforcement protests in San Francisco's Financial District Sunday evening, with police officers injured and significant property damage left behind, authorities said. The San Francisco Police Department said in a statement that officers were monitoring a protest by several hundred people outside an Immigration and Customs Enforcement field office in the area of Sansome and Washington streets at about 7 p.m. The protesters carried signs and chanted slogans against ongoing immigration enforcement and the deployment of National Guard troops in Los Angeles, when some people in the group became violent, police said. "Individuals in the group became violent and began to commit crimes ranging from assault to felony vandalism and causing property damage," the statement said. "SFPD declared an unlawful assembly. While many left the scene, several individuals remained and continued engaging in illegal activity. " Police said two officers suffered injuries that were not life-threatening, one of whom was taken to a hospital. The group of people that remained after the protest was broken up headed toward Market and Kearny streets. Some in the group vandalized buildings and a police car, while others splintered off and continued to vandalize property, police said.&nbsp; Among the property vandalized was a Waymo robotaxi, which prompted the company to suspend in some areas of San Francisco. Waymo also suspended service in downtown Los Angeles &nbsp;after multiple robotaxis were set afire during ICE protests in that city . Before the violent incidents, other protesters had urged calm. "The thing is, we have to keep sure that it's completely non-violent, it's peaceful and together, we have to move with the city," an unnamed protester told CBS San Francisco. "If we don't stand for immigrants, we don't stand for democracy, we don't stand for society, we don't stand for freedom," another unnamed protester said. Another protester said the presence of officers in riot gear was unsettling and escalated the tension. "It's wild to be here in riot gear when people are protesting," said Courtney, who did not give her last name. "I think it generally escalates situations." A group of about 200 people continued to march to the 200 block of Montgomery Street near the San Francisco Immigration Court building and refused to leave the area after being ordered to disperse, police said. Officers then began making arrests, which totaled 154 people, including six juveniles. One person was charged with felony assault of an officer. Police earlier had indicated that about 60 people had been arrested.&nbsp; A firearm was also recovered at the scene, police said. No other injuries were reported. The disturbance led BART to temporarily suspend service at Embarcadero Station. San Francisco Mayor Daniel Lurie said people in the group also vandalized Muni vehicles and broke windows of local businesses. "Everyone in this country has a right to make their voice heard peacefully, and local law enforcement will always protect that right and the rights of everyone in our city to be safe. But we will never tolerate violent and destructive behavior," said Lurie in a prepared statement . "Violence directed at law enforcement or public servants is never acceptable." Lurie also reiterated the city's support for immigrant community members. "As I have always said, efforts to target members of our immigrant community who contribute to our city, support our economy, and raise their families here make our city less safe," said Lurie. "We will continue San Francisco's decades-long practice of prioritizing everyone's safety by supporting community organizations, investing in immigrant legal services, and continuing to build trust with local law enforcement." California Gov. Gavin Newsom said Monday&nbsp; he is suing the Trump administration &nbsp;following President Trump's decision to deploy National Guard troops to Los Angeles &nbsp;in response to recent unrest over ICE operations . Mr. Trump defended the deployment as necessary to restore law and order and accused Newsom of incompetence in a social media post.&nbsp; Newsom has urged Californians to "not use violence" and "stay peaceful" in their demonstrations against ICE operations. "Don't give Donald Trump what he wants," he said in a social media post. "Speak up. Stay peaceful. Stay calm." "Do not use violence and respect the law enforcement officers that are trying their best to keep the peace," Newsom added. More from CBS News Marin County protesters rally against ICE, Border Patrol after killing of Alex Pretti Philly protesters rally in support of Minnesota after another deadly shooting Protests pop up in Bay Area after man shot, killed by federal immigration agents in Minneapolis More protests in Chicago after federal agents shoot, kill Minneapolis resident Protests erupt across Northern California over ICE enforcement, deadly shooting in Minneapolis In: Immigration U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement San Francisco &copy; 2025 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved. Featured Local Savings Dozens arrested following ICE protests in San Francisco Dozens arrested following ICE protests in San Francisco 03:07 Dozens arrested following ICE protests in San Francisco (03:07) Marin County protesters rally against ICE, Border Patrol after killing of Alex Pretti Philly protesters rally in support of Minnesota after another deadly shooting Protests pop up in Bay Area after man shot, killed by federal immigration agents in Minneapolis More protests in Chicago after federal agents shoot, kill Minneapolis resident Protests erupt across Northern California over ICE enforcement, deadly shooting in Minneapolis Georgia lawmakers react after Border Patrol agent kills man in Minneapolis Protesters gathered to rally against federal agents, Trump admin in the Loop Law enforcement legal expert dives into Minneapolis ICE killings Featured Minneapolis Shooting Snowfall Totals Broncos vs. Patriots Seahawks vs. Rams Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram TikTok X KPIX Bay Area Meet the Team Program Guide Contests &amp; Promotions Advertise With Us Sitemap Regulation Public File for KPIX-TV Public File for KPYX / KPIX+ Public Inspection File Help FCC Applications EEO Report Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman &copy;2026 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue