Title: ICE Raids Target Workers on Farms and in Food Production: A Running List
Authors: Lisa Held, Rebekah Alvey, Jason Dove Mark, The Civil Eats Editors, Grace Chamberlin, Anupama Joshi, Aviva Musicus, Follow
Published: 2025-06-11 00:00:00

Expand your understanding of food systems as a Civil Eats member. Enjoy unlimited access to our groundbreaking reporting, engage with experts, and connect with a community of changemakers.

June 17, 2025 Update: According to The Washington Post, the Department of Homeland Security reversed its guidance yesterday and told ICE agents they must continue to conduct immigration raids at farms, restaurants, and other food businesses.

June 16, 2025 Update: On Thursday, June 12, an ICE official directed agents to “hold on all work site enforcement investigations/operations on agriculture (including aquaculture and meat packing plants), restaurants and operating hotels.” Soon after, United Farm Workers put out a statement questioning whether the guidance would be followed.

June 11, 2025 – As protests against the Trump administration’s arrests of immigrants continue in Los Angeles and spread to other cities, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and Border Patrol officers are pressing into produce fields in California, meatpacking plants in the Midwest, and restaurants in the South.

Yesterday, the Los Angeles Times reported that agents were sweeping across Tulare, Ventura, and Fresno counties in California, among other sites, targeting workers picking blueberries and packing produce. The state provides a third of the vegetables and more than half of the nuts and fruits sold in the U.S; at least half of the 255,000 workers who make that possible are undocumented. In Nebraska, ICE agents raided a meatpacking facility called Glenn Valley Foods and took away 70 workers. In Texas, agents took workers from two restaurants.

The actions and other recent reports suggest immigration enforcement at workplaces is likely to increase as the agencies attempt to meet new White House goals of 3,000 arrests per day. While the Trump administration’s deportation numbers are still lower than numbers under President Biden, many of the Biden-era deportations were happening at the border as high numbers of individuals attempted to enter the country.

Trump’s crackdown has resulted in historically low border crossings, so hitting those numbers means pursuing immigrants already living and working in the U.S. And while the administration has promoted its arrests of immigrants with criminal records, an ICE agent told The New York Times today that all undocumented immigrants are being treated “as criminals based on their manner of entry.”

The food system’s many sectors—especially farms, food processing plants, restaurants, and food delivery companies—rely on the labor of immigrants, a significant number of whom don’t have legal authorization to work in the U.S.

During a House Agriculture Committee hearing today, both Republicans and Democrats brought up the issue with Secretary of Agriculture Brooke Rollins. “Recent enforcement actions have begun to impact and even target agricultural operations, and yet there’s still a lack of clarity for producers,” said Chairman G.T. Thompson (R-Pennsylvania).

Rollins told lawmakers that she discussed the issue with President Trump yesterday and that she is working with the Secretaries of Labor and Homeland Security to address immigration enforcement’s impact on farms.

“This was one of the issues that we spoke about,” she said. “This president’s commitment to ensuring that all laws are followed remains paramount, but also combining that with understanding the significant challenges to our ag producers in finding the labor that is necessary.” Lawmakers did not bring up the impacts of enforcement on immigrant families working in the food system.

As enforcement ramps up, we’ll be updating this list with federal immigration actions that impact farms, other sectors of the food system, and the workers themselves:

January 7, 2025 – Bakersfield, California – Citrus fieldworkers detained

March 25, 2025 – Sedro-Wooley, Washington – Farmworker organizer Alfredo “Lelo” Juarez Zeferino arrested

April 21, 2025 – Berkshire, Vermont – Eight workers detained at a dairy farm

May 2, 2025 – Albion, New York – 14 farmworkers affiliated with the United Farm Workers arrested

May 7, 2025 – Washington, D.C. – ICE agents visit nine restaurants

May 31, 2025 – San Diego, California – Federal agents detain several workers at an Italian restaurant

June 4, 2025 – Lovington, New Mexico – 11 workers detained after raid of Outlook Dairy Farms

June 10, 2025 – Omaha, Nebraska – Seventy workers detained after raid of Glenn Valley Foods

June 10, 2025 – Southern California – Immigration agents sweep farms in three California counties

June 10, 2025- Harlingen, Texas – Workers arrested at two restaurants