WGN Staffer Detained, Later Released By Border Patrol Agents In Lincoln Square
Real Chicago stories start in your neighborhood
Get a daily digest of stories from all neighborhoods across Chicago. On Sundays, you'll get our reporters’ best of the week, highlighting the people and places that make our neighborhoods home.
Sign up
Real Chicago stories start in your neighborhood
Get a daily digest of stories from all neighborhoods across Chicago. On Sundays, you'll get our reporters’ best of the week, highlighting the people and places that make our neighborhoods home.
Sign up
Skip to content
Credibility:
Original Reporting
Sources Cited
Original Reporting
This article contains new, firsthand information uncovered by its reporter(s). This includes directly interviewing sources and research/analysis of primary source documents.
Sources Cited
As a news piece, this article cites verifiable, third-party sources which have all been thoroughly fact-checked and deemed credible by the Newsroom.
Cars drive past the site where federal agents arrested a WGN employee in the 2400 block of West Foster Ave in Chicago on Friday, Oct. 10, 2025.
Credit:
Talia Sprague/Block Club Chicago
This is part of our series of daily recaps of ICE activity in the Chicago region. Have a tip we should check out? Email
newsroom@blockclubchi.org
.
LINCOLN SQUARE — Federal agents detained a woman who works for the news agency WGN on Friday morning as she attempted to document them detaining a Latino man, witnesses said.
It is unclear if the woman was working for WGN when she was detained. In a video a witness recorded of the incident, the woman identified herself as Debbie Brockman and said she works for WGN. Brockman is a full-time video editor and producer for the station, according to her LinkedIn profile.
“Earlier today, a WGN-TV creative services employee was detained by ICE. She has since been released, and no charges were filed against her,” the company said in a statement. “Out of respect for her privacy, we will have no further statements about this incident.”
Listen 🎧
Judge Blocks Trump’s National Guard Push Into Chicago — For Now
Between 8-9 a.m. Friday, Josh Thomas, who lives near Lincoln and Foster avenues, heard a commotion with cars honking and people screaming, he said. When he looked out his house’s balcony, he saw masked federal agents attempting to detain a man.
Thomas went downstairs to document what was happening, and he saw two Border Patrol agents on top of a woman who was face down on the ground, he said.
Thomas also saw a Latino man held by Border Patrol agents sitting inside a silver minivan with New Jersey plates, he said.
The woman identified herself as Brockman and asked witnesses to contact WGN. When Thomas asked federal agents why she was being detained, they said she was detained for obstruction, he said.
Screenshot of a video of a woman, who identified herself as Debbie Brockman, getting detained and moved into a van by U.S. Border Patrol agents on Oct. 10, 2025.
Credit:
Provided
A rapid response group member said witnesses told him Brockman saw federal agents detaining the man and attempted to film them and asked them for a warrant, and then the agents detained her. The rapid response group member asked not to be named.
Another
video
shows Brockman on her knees while agents handcuff her hands behind her back and people film. One agent yells at the people filming to move back. Another agent appears to put his hands on Brockman’s face and neck, and a neighbor yells at them to stop, saying Brockman “can’t … breathe.”
Screenshot of damage to a van occurred when a van driven by Border Patrol agents drove off after detaining at least two people, including a WGN employee, in Lincoln Square on Oct. 10, 2025.
Credit:
Provided
Videos also show several bystanders filming the incident and asking agents to identify themselves and whether they had a warrant as one agent yells and pushes them back. Another bystander can be seen screaming in apparent support of Border Patrol’s actions.
After a few minutes, federal agents put the woman inside the minivan and shut the door, but realized another van was in their way, Thomas said.
After two federal agents got out of the minivan to briefly yell at the driver to move, the agents got back into the van and drove off, hitting the other car and breaking its rear bumper and tail lights, according to videos and witnesses.
Witness statements were at odds with Homeland Security’s version of events that were detailed in a statement Friday from Assistant Secretary Tricia McLaughlin. Border Patrol officers were in the area conducting an immigration enforcement operation when “several violent agitators” used vehicles to block in the officers, McLaughlin said. McLaughlin’s statement accused Brockman of throwing “objects” at the Border Patrol vehicle after the officers struck another vehicle to create an opening.
According to McLaughlin, Brockman was placed under arrest “for assault on a federal law enforcement officer.”
Federal immigration agents who aren’t working undercover are required to wear badges with identifying information — “unique, recognizable alpha-numeric” identification — on their uniform or helmet,
under a ruling issued Thursday
by a federal judge. It’s unclear whether the agents who detained Brockman were wearing such identification.
Happening In Chicago
About 9:45 a.m. Friday, a group of federal agents were in a vehicle near Ravenswood Elementary School, 4332 N. Paulina St. A woman in an SUV honked her horn to notify neighbors agents were near the school. Federal agents got out of their vehicle and stood next to the SUV. Other neighbors yelled for the agents to leave. The agents returned to their car and left without detaining anyone, according to video from a witness and information from Alds. Matt Martin (47th) and Rossana Rodriguez-Sanchez (33rd).
About 8:20 a.m., four federal immigration agents wearing black masks detained a man near West Lawrence and North Cicero avenues near Gompers Park. Agents were seen using a black truck, a SUV and a white and silver minivan. None of the vehicles had license plates, according to
Northwest Side Rapid Response
team.
About 10:30 a.m., federal immigration agents wearing green uniforms and face masks were spotted using a white Chrysler Pacifica near
North St. Louis and West Lawrence avenues
. The agents were last seen in the area 11:15 a.m.
About 10:55 a.m., federal agents detained a street vendor in front of a laundromat near the intersection of West Cermak Road and South Troy Street. Federal agents were seen using a black “GMC Denali SUV” and a black Chevy Tahoe, according to
La Villita se Defiende
team.
About 10:30 a.m., agents detained a street vendor near South Damen Avenue and West Cermak Road. Federal agents were seen using a black Chevy Tahoe, according to the
Pilsen Puño
team.
The Pilsen Puño team also
shared images of vehicles on social media
that have been seen in the neighborhood being used by federal immigration agents.
Happening In The Suburbs
About 7:54 a.m. Friday, two vehicles with federal agents inside were seen on McBride Street in suburban Elgin near the Gail Borden Library, 270 N. Grove Ave., according to the
Elgin Area Rapid Response
team.
At 8:36 a.m., federal agents were seen near
Canelitas Restaurant, 440 Washington St.
, in suburban Elgin.
At 10:35 a.m., federal agents detained someone at
Elgin Fresh Market, 306 S. McLean Boulevard
, in suburban Elgin.
At 11:10 a.m., one person was detained by federal immigration agents at
704 N. Walnut St. in suburban South Elgin
. Federal agents were seen using three cars.
Know Your Rights
Know Your Rights As An Immigrant
What To Do If A Loved One Is Detained
Know Your Rights As A Protester
Recording, Reporting Immigration Agents
What To Do If You’re Unhoused
Nonprofits That Serve Immigrants
Follow For Updates
You can follow these organizations for updates about immigration enforcement activity.
Brighton Park Neighborhood Council
Southwest Rapid Response
Northwest Side Rapid Response
Increase the Peace
Pilsen Puño
Organized Communities Against Deportations
Illinois Coalition for Immigrant & Refugee Rights
National Immigrant Justice Center
Resurrection Project
Support Local News!
Subscribe to Block Club Chicago
,
an independent, 501(c)(3), journalist-run newsroom. Every dime we make funds reporting from Chicago’s neighborhoods. Already subscribe?
Click here to gift a subscription
, or you can
support Block Club with a
tax-deductible donation.
Listen to the Block Club Chicago podcast:
Listen On
Apple Podcasts
Listen On
Spotify
Is There Any Way Out Of Chicago’s Horrible Parking Meter Deal?
Episode play icon
Is There Any Way Out Of Chicago’s Horrible Parking Meter Deal?
Episode play icon
The 28-Year-Old Breaking Birding Records In Chicago
Episode play icon
Good. Better. Best. Grater — The Bears’ Wild Ride Continues
Episode play icon
As Crime Rates Fall, Domestic Homicides Are Surging In Chicago. Why?
Episode play icon
Bears. Packers. Grate night? Or Does The Pack Still Own Da Bears? UPDATE: DAAAAAAAAA BEARS
Load More
Search Results placeholder
Previous Episode
Show Episodes List
Next Episode
Show Podcast Information
Sign in
Close
Enter the code sent to your email.
Email address
Enter your password
Sign in by entering the code we sent to
, or clicking the magic link in the email.
Continue
Resend code
Email me a one-time code instead
Forgot password
Create an account
Sign in to an existing account
Go back
Continue
Set a password (optional)
Sign up for newsletters
Close
Get the best of Block Club Chicago directly in your email inbox.
Sending to:
Citywide Morning Newsletter
A daily digest of the top news from across all neighborhoods of Chicago: our best coverage from every corner of the city and the most important stories for all residents and guests.
Continue
Link
Copy link