Title: WGN Staffer Detained, Later Released By Border Patrol Agents In Lincoln Square
Authors: Francia Garcia Hernandez
Published: 2025-10-10 00:00:00

This is part of our series of daily recaps of ICE activity in the Chicago region. Have a tip we should check out? Email newsroom@blockclubchi.org.

LINCOLN SQUARE — Federal agents detained a woman who works for the news agency WGN on Friday morning as she attempted to document them detaining a Latino man, witnesses said.

It is unclear if the woman was working for WGN when she was detained. In a video a witness recorded of the incident, the woman identified herself as Debbie Brockman and said she works for WGN. Brockman is a full-time video editor and producer for the station, according to her LinkedIn profile.

“Earlier today, a WGN-TV creative services employee was detained by ICE. She has since been released, and no charges were filed against her,” the company said in a statement. “Out of respect for her privacy, we will have no further statements about this incident.”

Listen 🎧 Judge Blocks Trump’s National Guard Push Into Chicago — For Now

Between 8-9 a.m. Friday, Josh Thomas, who lives near Lincoln and Foster avenues, heard a commotion with cars honking and people screaming, he said. When he looked out his house’s balcony, he saw masked federal agents attempting to detain a man.

Thomas went downstairs to document what was happening, and he saw two Border Patrol agents on top of a woman who was face down on the ground, he said.

Thomas also saw a Latino man held by Border Patrol agents sitting inside a silver minivan with New Jersey plates, he said.

The woman identified herself as Brockman and asked witnesses to contact WGN. When Thomas asked federal agents why she was being detained, they said she was detained for obstruction, he said.

Screenshot of a video of a woman, who identified herself as Debbie Brockman, getting detained and moved into a van by U.S. Border Patrol agents on Oct. 10, 2025. Credit: Provided

A rapid response group member said witnesses told him Brockman saw federal agents detaining the man and attempted to film them and asked them for a warrant, and then the agents detained her. The rapid response group member asked not to be named.

Another video shows Brockman on her knees while agents handcuff her hands behind her back and people film. One agent yells at the people filming to move back. Another agent appears to put his hands on Brockman’s face and neck, and a neighbor yells at them to stop, saying Brockman “can’t … breathe.”

Screenshot of damage to a van occurred when a van driven by Border Patrol agents drove off after detaining at least two people, including a WGN employee, in Lincoln Square on Oct. 10, 2025. Credit: Provided

Videos also show several bystanders filming the incident and asking agents to identify themselves and whether they had a warrant as one agent yells and pushes them back. Another bystander can be seen screaming in apparent support of Border Patrol’s actions.

After a few minutes, federal agents put the woman inside the minivan and shut the door, but realized another van was in their way, Thomas said.

After two federal agents got out of the minivan to briefly yell at the driver to move, the agents got back into the van and drove off, hitting the other car and breaking its rear bumper and tail lights, according to videos and witnesses.

Witness statements were at odds with Homeland Security’s version of events that were detailed in a statement Friday from Assistant Secretary Tricia McLaughlin. Border Patrol officers were in the area conducting an immigration enforcement operation when “several violent agitators” used vehicles to block in the officers, McLaughlin said. McLaughlin’s statement accused Brockman of throwing “objects” at the Border Patrol vehicle after the officers struck another vehicle to create an opening.

According to McLaughlin, Brockman was placed under arrest “for assault on a federal law enforcement officer.”

Federal immigration agents who aren’t working undercover are required to wear badges with identifying information — “unique, recognizable alpha-numeric” identification — on their uniform or helmet, under a ruling issued Thursday by a federal judge. It’s unclear whether the agents who detained Brockman were wearing such identification.

Happening In Chicago

About 9:45 a.m. Friday, a group of federal agents were in a vehicle near Ravenswood Elementary School, 4332 N. Paulina St. A woman in an SUV honked her horn to notify neighbors agents were near the school. Federal agents got out of their vehicle and stood next to the SUV. Other neighbors yelled for the agents to leave. The agents returned to their car and left without detaining anyone, according to video from a witness and information from Alds. Matt Martin (47th) and Rossana Rodriguez-Sanchez (33rd).

About 8:20 a.m., four federal immigration agents wearing black masks detained a man near West Lawrence and North Cicero avenues near Gompers Park. Agents were seen using a black truck, a SUV and a white and silver minivan. None of the vehicles had license plates, according to Northwest Side Rapid Response team.

About 10:30 a.m., federal immigration agents wearing green uniforms and face masks were spotted using a white Chrysler Pacifica near North St. Louis and West Lawrence avenues. The agents were last seen in the area 11:15 a.m.

About 10:55 a.m., federal agents detained a street vendor in front of a laundromat near the intersection of West Cermak Road and South Troy Street. Federal agents were seen using a black “GMC Denali SUV” and a black Chevy Tahoe, according to La Villita se Defiende team.

About 10:30 a.m., agents detained a street vendor near South Damen Avenue and West Cermak Road. Federal agents were seen using a black Chevy Tahoe, according to the Pilsen Puño team.

The Pilsen Puño team also shared images of vehicles on social media that have been seen in the neighborhood being used by federal immigration agents.

Happening In The Suburbs

Know Your Rights

Follow For Updates

You can follow these organizations for updates about immigration enforcement activity.

Listen to the Block Club Chicago podcast: