Title: WGN employee Debbie Brockman, detained by Border Patrol agents, issues statement
Authors: Gabriel Castillo
Published: 2025-10-14 19:35:51+00:00

Just days after she was detained by Border Patrol agents on the city’s North Side, attorneys representing the WGN creative services employee at the center of the incident released a statement.

The statement was shared on Tuesday morning by attorneys at People’s Law Office, which is representing Debbie Brockman.

On Friday, Brockman was detained after Border Patrol agents said they were conducting immigration enforcement at a busy intersection in Chicago’s Lincoln Square neighborhood at the height of rush hour. She was released later that day without charges.

WGN initially chose not to name the employee, as she was not charged with a crime, which is standard practice in coverage.

Since Brockman has identified herself in the statement, WGN is as well.

See WGN News previous reporting on Friday’s incident here

The full statement from People’s Law Office on behalf of Debbie Brockman is below.

“Debbie Brockman, the WGN employee who was physically attacked and arrested in Chicago, Illinois by federal agents on October 10, 2025, would like to provide the following information to clarify any misunderstandings or misrepresentations that have been previously reported.

First off, Ms. Brockman wishes to clarify that at the time of this incident she was not acting in any professional capacity as an employee of WGN. During the morning hours this past Friday, Ms. Brockman was walking to the bus stop as part of her morning commute when she was attacked by Border Patrol agents.

Ms. Brockman, who is a U.S. citizen born in this country, was violently detained on Foster Avenue, on the north side of Chicago. As this occurred, individuals on the street began recording the incident and asked Ms. Brockman her name. In addition to providing her name, Ms. Brockman stated that she worked for WGN. She added this information because she hoped someone would notify her employer so her coworkers would know that she would not be arriving at work that day.

Ms. Brockman was detained and held in federal custody for approximately 7 hours before being released. She has not been charged with any crimes and she intends to pursue all legal avenues available to her to vindicate her rights and hold the federal authorities accountable for their actions.

Ms. Brockman is being represented by attorneys from the People’s Law Office in Chicago. Ms. Brockman and her legal team adamantly deny any allegation that she assaulted anyone. Rather, Ms. Brockman was the one who was violently assaulted by federal agents on her way to work. Ms. Brockman feared for her life multiple times throughout this terrifying experience.

“This incident should be alarming and horrifying to every single person in this country,” said Brad Thomson, one of Ms. Brockman’s attorneys at People’s Law Office. “If armed, masked, federal agents are snatching U.S. citizens off the street as they walk to work and throwing them in unmarked vehicles, you can only imagine what these agents must be willing to do to our immigrant neighbors and people who dare to speak out against them.”

Thomson further stated, “Ms. Brockman was taken to the ground, battered, handcuffed and her pants were pulled down exposing her bare buttocks. No one should be treated like that in this city, in this country, or anywhere else in the world.”

Ms. Brockman will not be making any statement at this time, as feels that she has been “exposed” enough.”

A spokesman for the US Attorney in Chicago confirmed Friday that Brockman was released without charges.

WGN released a statement regarding the incident involving Brockman.

On the morning of Friday October 10, 2025, a WGN-TV employee was detained by border patrol agents who are in Chicago working on immigration enforcement with ICE.

She was subsequently released, and no charges were filed against her.

This employee is not a journalist and was not working at the time.

We continue gathering facts related to this situation.

Out of respect for her privacy, we have no further comment.