Title: Officers deploy tear gas, rubber bullets to clear protesters in downtown L.A.
Authors: Lily Dallow, Vivian Chow
Published: 2025-06-15 00:09:41+00:00

A day of peaceful protests in downtown Los Angeles took a turn late Saturday afternoon when law enforcement began ordering the thousands of demonstrators to disperse from the area surrounding the L.A. Federal Building complex.

Officers deployed flashbangs and tear gas, and Sky5 captured the moment officers on foot and horseback moved into the large crowd. The L.A. Police Department reported that some protesters were “becoming increasingly unruly” and that people were throwing rocks, bricks, bottles, and other objects.

The dispersal order covered Alameda Street between Aliso and Temple, and Los Angeles Street between Aliso and Temple. Additionally, the LAPD stated that all on- and off-ramps of the 101 Freeway would remain closed between Alameda Street and the 110 Freeway.

Protesters rally during a “No Kings” protest in response to a series of United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) raids, in Los Angeles, Saturday, June 14, 2025.(Stephen Lam/San Francisco Chronicle via AP)

Los Angeles County Sheriffs arrest a demonstrator during a protest Saturday, June 14, 2025, in Los Angeles. (AP Photo/Ethan Swope)

Los Angeles County Sheriffs on horseback standoff against demonstrators during a protest Saturday, June 14, 2025, in Los Angeles. (AP Photo/Ethan Swope)

Law enforcement officers stand guard after deploying tear gas during a protest Saturday, June 14, 2025, in Los Angeles. (AP Photo/Noah Berger)

Los Angeles police officers deploy gas as a dispersal order was issued shortly before 4 p.m. in downtown Los Angeles. (KTLA)

Los Angeles police officers deploy gas as a dispersal order was issued shortly before 4 p.m. in downtown Los Angeles. (KTLA)

A demonstrator kicks a canister of tear gas during a protest Saturday, June 14, 2025, in Los Angeles. (AP Photo/Noah Berger)

LOS ANGELES, CA – JUNE 14: An injured woman is carried as protesters face off with police outside of a federal building in downtown Los Angeles for an anti-Trump “No Kings Day” demonstration in a city that has been the focus of protests against Trump’s immigration raids on June 14, 2025 in Los Angeles, California. Marches and protests against the Trump administration and its policies are happening across the United States today. Protesters are also reacting in opposition to a planned military parade celebrating the 250th anniversary of the U.S. Army that is taking place in Washington, DC and which coincides with President Trump’s birthday. (Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images)

EDS NOTE: OBSCENITY – Los Angeles County Sheriff deputy’s disperse demonstrators with tear gas near the Federal Building in downtown Los Angeles during a “No Kings” protest on Saturday, June 14, 2025. (AP Photo/Richard Vogel)

EDS NOTE: OBSCENITY – Tear gas surrounds law enforcement officers on horseback during a protest Saturday, June 14, 2025, in Los Angeles. (AP Photo/Ethan Swope)

Police also told protestors to leave the Civic Center area near 1st and Broadway. As officers cleared the crowds, around 7:30 p.m., LAPD said commercial-grade fireworks were being launched at officers near Broadway and 3rd Street.

Saturday’s protests in Los Angeles and hundreds of locations across the U.S. coincided with Flag Day, the 250th birthday of the U.S. Army, and President Donald Trump’s 79th birthday.

According to a spokesperson with “No Kings,” over 200,000 people participated in demonstrations across the Los Angeles region, with nearly 5 million total demonstrators across the country.

Tens of thousands of demonstrators in the Los Angeles area took to the streets to protest the Trump administration’s mass deportation policy and recent raids in Southern California.

A curfew will be in place beginning at 8 p.m. on Saturday night through 6 a.m. Sunday morning.