Title: ICE arrests 223 illegal aliens along northwest Indiana highways
Published: 2025-10-30 00:00:00

WASHINGTON — Immigration authorities have made 223 arrests along Northwest Indiana highways since mid-September as they aim to clear the state’s roadways of illegal aliens who create safety risks.

“ICE launched operation Midway Blitz to remove illegal alien threats to public safety, which is exactly what we have done in Chicago,” said acting ICE Director Todd M. Lyons. “We recognized from the start that this must include protecting roadways carrying interstate traffic and cargo. Sanctuary policies like those in Illinois sadly don’t recognize borders, and ICE and the Indiana State Police have successfully arrested hundreds of illegal alien truck drivers who should not be operating on our highways. In recent weeks, we have seen illegal semi-truck drivers responsible for significant loss of life across the country. This was preventable, and that is precisely why we are working to ensure this doesn’t happen in Indiana or Illinois.”

Many of the illegal aliens’ CDLs were from states with sanctuary policies, including California, Illinois and New York. Of the 46 truck drivers detained as illegal aliens, 10 had a type of CDL that has been subject to abuse in some states. The Trump administration has pushed states to stop issuing CDLs to illegal aliens.

The results show again how neglect of the nation’s immigration laws has undermined the rule of law and made America less secure. President Donald J. Trump’s common-sense enforcement efforts are restoring the rule of law and making the U.S. safe again.

The operation in Indiana, focused on immigration enforcement, has been aimed specifically at improving safety on the Hoosier State’s busy highways, where innocent people’s lives can be put in jeopardy by drivers who aren’t properly licensed or qualified.

The sweep in Indiana is part of Operation Midway Blitz, a Department of Homeland Security initiative targeting criminal illegal aliens in the Chicago area. It’s named in honor of Katie Abraham, who was killed in a hit-and-run by a drunk driver who was an illegal alien.

So far, at least 12 illegal alien drivers and passengers arrested on Indiana highways have had criminal histories, including for DWI, drug dealing, theft, burglary, assault, child abuse, domestic battery, prostitution and fraud. The Indiana initiative is based on a partnership between ICE and the Indiana State Police.