ICE arrests 100+ illegal aliens during targeted enforcement operation in Tallahassee | ICE Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( Lock Locked padlock ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. --> En Español Contact Us Quick Links INFO Due to the lapse in federal funding, this website will not be actively managed. More info --> Watch Live at 11:30 a.m. ET: Results of Nationwide Law Enforcement Effort Press Conference ICE Check-in for Aliens Get information about how to check in with your local ICE Office here . Reportándose con ICE: Obtenga información sobre cómo reportarse a su oficina local de ICE aquí . View in other languages Menu Call 1-866-DHS-2-ICE to report suspicious activity Report Crime Main Navigation " class="we-megamenu-nolink" title="Click here to open the About Us menu"> About Us Mission Who We Are Leadership History Information Library Career Opportunities ICE Fallen Officers Fact Sheets Learn facts about U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Learn More About ICE " class="we-megamenu-nolink" title="Click here to open the Enforcement and Removal Operations menu"> Enforcement and Removal Operations Identify and Arrest Criminal Alien Program Fugitive Operations Law Enforcement Partnerships 287g Program Immigration Fraud Prosecutions Detain Immigration Detainers Detention Facilities Health Service Corps Detention Management Facility Inspections Family Residential Standards Remove Removal Recalcitrant Countries Self-Deportation Immigration Enforcement Frequently Asked Questions ERO Statistics Dashboard How ICE Enforces Immigration Laws ICE identifies and apprehends removable aliens, detains these individuals and removes illegal aliens from the United States. Learn more about ERO ICE Check-in Learn more about how to check in with a local ICE office Get information about how to check in with your local ICE Office here . ERO e File A uniform platform for the filing of electronic G-28s with ERO and the scheduling of legal visits through ERO eFile’s Detention Facility Appointment Scheduler (DFAS). Learn more about ERO eFile " class="we-megamenu-nolink" title="Click here to open the Homeland Security Investigations menu"> Homeland Security Investigations Operational Priorities Protecting National Security Preventing Crimes of Exploitation Operation Identify Ensuring Public Safety Upholding the Law in Global Trade Investigating Cybercrime Combating Financial Crime Investigations Outreach Programs Partnerships Centers &amp; Labs Recognize &amp; Report Crime Securing the Homeland Combating cross-border criminal activity is a critical component of the overall safety, security and well-being of our nation. Learn more about HSI News about HSI Student and Exchange Visitor Program SEVP is a part of the National Security Investigations Division and acts as a bridge for government organizations that have an interest in information on nonimmigrants whose primary reason for coming to the United States is to be students. Learn more about SEVP " class="we-megamenu-nolink" title="Click here to open the Newsroom menu"> Newsroom News Releases and Statements Latest High-Profile Arrests Feature Stories Multimedia Social Media Speeches and Testimonies ERO Statistics Dashboard ICE's ERO officers uphold United States immigration laws by focusing on individuals who present the greatest risk to national security, public safety or border security. View the most recent statistics 2024 Year in Review ICE’s FY 2024 Annual Report View the annual report Media Inquiries Breadcrumb ICE Newsroom ICE arrests 100+ illegal aliens during targeted enforcement operation in Tallahassee Share Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Email this Page Print this Page Follow Us @HSITampa May 29, 2025 Tallahassee , FL , United States Enforcement and Removal ICE arrests 100+ illegal aliens during targeted enforcement operation in Tallahassee TALLAHASSEE — U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement arrested more than 100 illegal aliens during a targeted enforcement operation at construction sites in the in Tallahassee during a joint agency operation May 29. The multiagency operation, directed by ICE Homeland Security Investigations Tallahassee, with significant assistance from ICE Enforcement and Removal Operations, Florida Highway Patrol, FBI, Drug Enforcement Administration, Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms, U.S. Marshals Service, Florida Department of Law Enforcement and the Internal Revenue Service - Criminal Investigations, led to the arrest of illegal aliens from Nicaragua, El Salvador, Guatemala, Mexico, Venezuelans, Colombia, and Honduras to name a few. One was taken into state custody for resisting arrest and is being charged with four counts of assault on law enforcement officers. Another attempted to pull a weapon on officers. “These types of enforcement actions aim to eliminate illegal employment, holding employers accountable and protecting employment opportunities for America’s lawful workforce,” said ICE HSI Tallahassee Assistant Special Agent in Charge Nicholas Ingegno. “HSI Tallahassee, working alongside our state, local, and federal partners, will continue protecting public safety by enforcing the immigration laws of our nation.” ICE officials have continually emphasized the agency’s continued focus to identifying public safety and national security threats. Individuals unlawfully present in the United States who are encountered during enforcement operations may be taken into custody and processed for removal in accordance with federal law. Members of the public with information about suspected immigration violations or related criminal activity are encouraged to contact the ICE Tip Line at 866-DHS-2-ICE (866-347-2423) or submit information online via the ICE Tip Form . For more information about ICE HSI Tallahassee and its efforts to enhance public safety in Florida, follow us on X at @HSITampa . Updated: 06/13/2025 Return to top Media Inquiries For media inquiries about ICE activities, operations, or policies, contact the ICE Office of Public Affairs at ICEMedia@ice.dhs.gov . About Us Enforcement and Removal Operations Homeland Security Investigations Newsroom ICE Contact Center Report suspicious activity: 1-866-DHS-2-ICE ICE.gov An official website of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security ICE USWDS Footer Links About ICE Accessibility FOIA Requests Privacy Policy DHS.gov Archive No FEAR Act Data Site Links Performance Reports Inspector General The White House DHS Components USA.gov Mobile Menu Bar Menu Search En Español Contact Main Navigation on Mobile Devices About Us Mission Who We Are Leadership History Information Library Career Opportunities ICE Fallen Officers Enforcement and Removal Operations Identify and Arrest Criminal Alien Program Fugitive Operations Law Enforcement Partnerships 287g Program Immigration Fraud Prosecutions Detain Immigration Detainers Detention Facilities Health Service Corps Detention Management Facility Inspections Family Residential Standards Remove Recalcitrant Countries Removal Self-Deportation Immigration Enforcement Frequently Asked Questions ERO Statistics Dashboard Homeland Security Investigations Operational Priorities Protecting National Security Preventing Crimes of Exploitation Operation Identify Ensuring Public Safety Upholding the Law in Global Trade Investigating Cybercrime Combating Financial Crime Investigations Outreach Programs Partnerships Centers &amp; Labs Recognize &amp; Report Crime Newsroom News Releases and Statements Latest High-Profile Arrests Feature Stories Multimedia Social Media Speeches and Testimonies Search Search Home Who We Are Newsroom Information Library Contact ICE Careers En Español