Lawsuit over excessive use of force against protesters, press by DHS under 'Midway Blitz' dropped after feds leave - ABC7 Chicago
lawsuit
Lawsuit over excessive use of force under 'Operation Midway Blitz' dropped after feds leave
By
ABC7 Chicago Digital Team
Tuesday, December 2, 2025
CHICAGO (WLS) --
Plaintiffs who filed a lawsuit over excessive use of force against protesters and press by the Department of Homeland Security under "Operation Midway Blitz" said Tuesday they are dropping the case, as many federal forces have already left the area.
"This case started out being about the Trump administration's attempt to scare people who protested Operation Midway Blitz and reporters who documented it," said plaintiff Autumn Reidy-Hamer of Oak Park, who was twice tear-gassed while protesting at the Broadview U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement facility. "But we made it clear that Chicago was going to keep protesting and bearing witness no matter what the federal government did. Chicago stood up to the bully, and the bully backed down."
ABC7 Chicago is now streaming 24/7. Click here to watch
On Nov. 6,
Judge Sara Ellis
issued an oral ruling restricting the
use of force
by federal troops.
"Plaintiffs' attorneys have received no significant reports of ICE or CBP violence against protesters, clergy, or journalists since Nov. 8, and it appears that (Border Patrol Chief Gregory) Bovino and company left town the following week," law firm Loevy + Loevy said in a news release.
SEE MORE:
Federal agents engaged in widespread misrepresentations to justify use of force: Judge
The plaintiffs said they are prepared to continue to fight in the future if needed.
The 7th Circuit Court of Appeals
stayed Judge Ellis's initial order
while the
Trump administration's appeal
is heard.
Despite what the videos show, neither DHS nor Bovino has ever admitted to an unjustified use of force, claiming throughout that all of their actions have been justified and lawful.
Report a correction or typo
Copyright © 2026 WLS-TV. All Rights Reserved.
Related Topics
BROADVIEW
LAWSUIT
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
USE OF FORCE
IMMIGRATION
COURT
BODY CAMERAS
JUDGE
TikTok settles as social media giants face landmark trial
Former owners of The Signature Room being sued for backpay
Swift criticized Baldoni in texts to Lively: court docs
Family sues Joliet police after 12-year-old girl patted down | Video
Watch Live
ON NOW
Death of pregnant woman after IL fire being investigated as homicide
1 hour ago
Amazon to close Amazon Go, Amazon Fresh locations
Fed agents arrest man in Bolingbrook PD lobby: police
2 hours ago
Person shot in Border Patrol incident in Arizona, sheriff says
5 minutes ago
'Blind Side' actor on life support
Crews rebuilding north suburban halfway house destroyed in 2024 fire
20 minutes ago
Business left with thousands in damage after pipe burst in suburbs
Hawthorne Race Course's license suspended, putting future in jeopardy
30 minutes ago