Buford Highway, Plaza Fiesta packed with protestors supporting Atlanta immigrants – WABE
DONATE
Change Stream
Live WABE 90.1:
Loading, please wait...
Sponsor
NEXT: 5:00PM
Closer Look with Rose Scott
Schedule
Live WABE Classics:
Performance Today
Live BBC News:
The Arts Hour
Buford Highway, Plaza Fiesta packed with protestors supporting Atlanta immigrants
Human Rights
Immigrants
Immigration
Buford Highway, Plaza Fiesta packed with protestors supporting Atlanta immigrants
Immigration
Emily Wu Pearson
|
WABE
February 1st, 2025
Share this page via facebook
Share this page via X
Share this page via linkedin
Share this page via email
Protesters waving flags stand on top of a car at a rally in Buford Highway on Saturday, Feb, 1, 2025, against recent Immigration and Customs Enforcements arrests. (Matthew Pearson/WABE)
More than a thousand people marched along Buford Highway Saturday to protest Immigration and Customs Enforcements raids that swept metro Atlanta at the end of January.
The raids were part of a push to arrest migrants without authorization in cities around the country and Georgia, including
Savannah.
ICE did not release the number of those arrested in the Atlanta area, but at least one man was
arrested at his church in Tucker
after Sunday service ended.
“My dad is an immigrant. My mom is Mexican American as well,” said Rose Castillo, who protested with friends at Plaza Fiesta. “I’m a teacher, an ESOL teacher specifically. Remembering who I represent, who I teach is really important.”
Protesters waving flags and holding signs at a rally in Buford Highway on Saturday, Feb, 1, 2025, against recent Immigration and Customs Enforcements arrests. (Matthew Pearson/WABE)
Read this story now for free
To continue reading, sign up for our newsletter and get unlimited access to WABE.org
You can select your preferences for news and local content. We will never share your email address.
Learn how your newsletter sign-up will support WABE and Public Media
Share this page via facebook
Share this page via X
Share this page via linkedin
Share this page via email
Related
Immigration
Feb 27, 2025
‘These are already deeply troubled facilities.’ Sen. Jon Ossoff condemns immigrants moved to prisons
Listen
7:00
Immigration
Feb 26, 2025
Ossoff pushes federal officials on housing immigrants in prisons
Immigration
Feb 23, 2025
Georgia and other states threaten fines and jail time for local officials who resist immigration crackdown
Sponsor
Sponsor
Top Stories
Infectious Disease
Georgians mourn ‘public health hero’ Dr. William Foege, who led global smallpox eradication
Election
Appeals court rules in favor of Georgia election takeover and photography ban laws
DeKalb County
DeKalb considers studying condition of county jail facility
Immigration
Ossoff, Warnock say they will not support DHS funding in wake of second fatal shooting in Minnesota
Winter Weather
More arctic air expected in parts of the South still covered in ice and riddled with power outages
Entertainment
Atlanta resident, 'Blind Side' actor Quinton Aaron on life support
Sponsor