What we know about ICE arrest of a parent outside a Chula Vista elementary school | KPBS Public Media Search Query Show Search News Local National International Noticias en español Investigations North County South Bay All News Sections Local National International Noticias en español Investigations North County South Bay All News Sections Featured Projects Data Visualization Projects Game-Time Decision Best of 2025 KPBS Families One of Their Own One Small Step Public Matters Data Visualization Projects Game-Time Decision Best of 2025 KPBS Families One of Their Own One Small Step Public Matters Arts &amp; Culture Arts &amp; Culture Stories Arts Calendar Black Arts &amp; Culture Holiday Gift Guide One Book, One San Diego Weekend Arts Preview Soccer a la Frontera Cinema Junkie The Finest Podcast Freeway Exit Podcast The Parker Edison Project Podcast Port of Entry Podcast Everybody&#x27;s Doing It With Miss Lolly Podcast Voices del Valle Podcast Arts &amp; Culture Stories Arts Calendar Black Arts &amp; Culture Holiday Gift Guide One Book, One San Diego Weekend Arts Preview Soccer a la Frontera Cinema Junkie The Finest Podcast Freeway Exit Podcast The Parker Edison Project Podcast Port of Entry Podcast Everybody&#x27;s Doing It With Miss Lolly Podcast Voices del Valle Podcast TV &amp; Radio Watch Live Stream KPBS+ Watch KPBS On-Demand KPBS Evening Edition KPBS Midday Edition KPBS News: This Week KPBS Roundtable Kids TV Podcasts Radio Reading Service Radio Shows Radio 89.5 Schedule TV Highlights TV Schedules TV Shows Classical San Diego Schedule Watch Live Stream KPBS+ Watch KPBS On-Demand KPBS Evening Edition KPBS Midday Edition KPBS News: This Week KPBS Roundtable Kids TV Podcasts Radio Reading Service Radio Shows Radio 89.5 Schedule TV Highlights TV Schedules TV Shows Classical San Diego Schedule Podcasts One of Their Own Voices del Valle ScreenTime The Finest Rap Diego Free Jane Stripper Energy San Diego News Now KPBS Midday Edition Freeway Exit KPBS Roundtable Cinema Junkie KPBS Investigates Port of Entry The Parker Edison Project Everybody&#x27;s Doing It With Miss Lolly San Diego Conversations The KPBS Summer Music Series Rad Scientist My First Day Device One of Their Own Voices del Valle ScreenTime The Finest Rap Diego Free Jane Stripper Energy San Diego News Now KPBS Midday Edition Freeway Exit KPBS Roundtable Cinema Junkie KPBS Investigates Port of Entry The Parker Edison Project Everybody&#x27;s Doing It With Miss Lolly San Diego Conversations The KPBS Summer Music Series Rad Scientist My First Day Device Support KPBS Federal Funding Update Membership Information KPBS Passport Producers Club Major Giving The Gratitude Collective Vehicle Donation Giving Property Corporate Support Other Ways to Give Federal Funding Update Membership Information KPBS Passport Producers Club Major Giving The Gratitude Collective Vehicle Donation Giving Property Corporate Support Other Ways to Give Events Events Calendar Valentine&#x27;s Day Submit an Event KPBS Rentals Events Calendar Valentine&#x27;s Day Submit an Event KPBS Rentals Help Menu Show Search Search Query Give Now Play Live Radio Next Up: 0:00 0:00 Available On Air Stations On Air Now Playing KPBS Radio Full Schedule On Air Now Playing Classical San Diego Watch Live All Streams News Local National International Noticias en español Investigations North County South Bay All News Sections Local National International Noticias en español Investigations North County South Bay All News Sections Featured Projects Data Visualization Projects Game-Time Decision Best of 2025 KPBS Families One of Their Own One Small Step Public Matters Data Visualization Projects Game-Time Decision Best of 2025 KPBS Families One of Their Own One Small Step Public Matters Arts &amp; Culture Arts &amp; Culture Stories Arts Calendar Black Arts &amp; Culture Holiday Gift Guide One Book, One San Diego Weekend Arts Preview Soccer a la Frontera Cinema Junkie The Finest Podcast Freeway Exit Podcast The Parker Edison Project Podcast Port of Entry Podcast Everybody&#x27;s Doing It With Miss Lolly Podcast Voices del Valle Podcast Arts &amp; Culture Stories Arts Calendar Black Arts &amp; Culture Holiday Gift Guide One Book, One San Diego Weekend Arts Preview Soccer a la Frontera Cinema Junkie The Finest Podcast Freeway Exit Podcast The Parker Edison Project Podcast Port of Entry Podcast Everybody&#x27;s Doing It With Miss Lolly Podcast Voices del Valle Podcast TV &amp; Radio Watch Live Stream KPBS+ Watch KPBS On-Demand KPBS Evening Edition KPBS Midday Edition KPBS News: This Week KPBS Roundtable Kids TV Podcasts Radio Reading Service Radio Shows Radio 89.5 Schedule TV Highlights TV Schedules TV Shows Classical San Diego Schedule Watch Live Stream KPBS+ Watch KPBS On-Demand KPBS Evening Edition KPBS Midday Edition KPBS News: This Week KPBS Roundtable Kids TV Podcasts Radio Reading Service Radio Shows Radio 89.5 Schedule TV Highlights TV Schedules TV Shows Classical San Diego Schedule Podcasts One of Their Own Voices del Valle ScreenTime The Finest Rap Diego Free Jane Stripper Energy San Diego News Now KPBS Midday Edition Freeway Exit KPBS Roundtable Cinema Junkie KPBS Investigates Port of Entry The Parker Edison Project Everybody&#x27;s Doing It With Miss Lolly San Diego Conversations The KPBS Summer Music Series Rad Scientist My First Day Device One of Their Own Voices del Valle ScreenTime The Finest Rap Diego Free Jane Stripper Energy San Diego News Now KPBS Midday Edition Freeway Exit KPBS Roundtable Cinema Junkie KPBS Investigates Port of Entry The Parker Edison Project Everybody&#x27;s Doing It With Miss Lolly San Diego Conversations The KPBS Summer Music Series Rad Scientist My First Day Device Support KPBS Federal Funding Update Membership Information KPBS Passport Producers Club Major Giving The Gratitude Collective Vehicle Donation Giving Property Corporate Support Other Ways to Give Federal Funding Update Membership Information KPBS Passport Producers Club Major Giving The Gratitude Collective Vehicle Donation Giving Property Corporate Support Other Ways to Give Events Events Calendar Valentine&#x27;s Day Submit an Event KPBS Rentals Events Calendar Valentine&#x27;s Day Submit an Event KPBS Rentals Help Border &amp; Immigration What we know about ICE arrest of a parent outside a Chula Vista elementary school By Kori Suzuki / South Bay and Imperial Valley Reporter Contributors: Carlos Castillo / Video Journalist,&nbsp; Scott Rodd / Investigative Reporter,&nbsp; Gustavo Solis / Investigative Border Reporter Published&nbsp;August 8, 2025 at 5:52 PM PDT Facebook WhatsApp Email Immigration agents arrested Kyungjin Yu, an immigrant from South Korea, because she overstayed her visa, Department of Homeland Security officials told KPBS. Leer en español When federal immigration agents arrested a parent outside a Chula Vista elementary school Wednesday morning, they were targeting her specifically for overstaying her visa, federal officials told KPBS. Agents arrested Kyungjin Yu, an immigrant from South Korea, because her visa to be in the United States expired close to eight years ago, said Department of Homeland Security Assistant Secretary Tricia McLaughlin in an email. Advertisement Become a KPBS sponsor Agents arrested Yu Wednesday morning as students were arriving for class at Camarena Elementary School in East Chula Vista. McLaughlin confirmed reports that Yu’s children were in the car at the time. “Officers allowed Yu to call her ex-husband, who arrived at the scene to take custody of their children,” she wrote. McLaughlin did not say Yu had any criminal history. Being in the U.S. illegally is a civil offense, not a criminal one. On Wednesday, Chula Vista City Councilmember Michael Inzunza called the arrest “shameful and disgusting.” On Friday, he said agents crossed a line by arresting Yu as students were arriving at school. “It seems very intentional that they did this in front of a lot of people, in front of children,” Inzunza said. “There's no reason for us to go to the extra step and dramatically and intentionally arrest people whose only crime is being undocumented.” Advertisement Become a KPBS sponsor ICE is now holding Yu at the Otay Mesa Detention Center, according to the agency’s detainee lookup system . Yu’s arrest is another example of ICE and other immigration enforcement agencies ratcheting up enforcement on people who have overstayed their visas as part of President Donald Trump’s mass deportation campaign. The Trump administration has repeatedly claimed that those efforts — along with the rest of their sweeping immigration crackdown — are focused on removing people who have committed violent crimes from the U.S. But as the White House pressures immigration agencies to meet unprecedented arrest quotas, federal agents are arresting more and more people with no criminal histories . In Chula Vista so far this year, ICE has arrested 30 people, 40% of whom were convicted of crimes in the past, according to the Deportation Data Project . That’s up from recent years. Last year, ICE arrested just 9 people in Chula Vista. 66% of them had been convicted of crimes. In 2023, ICE arrested 4 people – all of them convicted of crimes, the data show. Jean Guerrero, an author and former KPBS journalist who has closely covered the Trump advisors overseeing the White House’s immigration crackdown, said these arrests are also part of a broader effort driven by white nationalist ideas . “The ultimate goal of this is to have a country that is in opposition to a multicultural and multi-ethnic and multiracial democracy,” Guerrero told KPBS’ Midday Edition in June. “They don't believe in multiracial or multicultural America. They want to strangle that in every way that they can.” Overall, research shows immigrants are far less likely to be convicted of violent crimes than U.S.-born citizens. KPBS could not locate any criminal history for Yu. In 2023, Yu’s husband filed a request for a domestic violence restraining order against her in family court around the time the couple filed for divorce, according to San Diego Superior Court records reviewed by KPBS. A judge issued a temporary restraining order, but it’s unclear whether that process went any further. In her email, McLaughlin said Yu entered the U.S. in 2015 and remained illegally after her visa expired in 2017. In 2022, a judge issued Yu a final order of removal after she failed to show up to an immigration hearing, McLaughlin said. Inzunza, the Chula Vista council member, said everyone should follow due process if they overstay their legal status and are missing court dates. But he said the presence of masked agents wearing camouflage and carrying firearms was traumatizing for children who were arriving at school. “If this was just an expired visa or warrant, why make such a traumatic event?” he said. Inzunza said Chula Vista officials did not have any immediate plans to explore options to support families affected by immigration arrests. Other Southern California cities like Santa Ana have created relief funds for families affected by immigration raids. Tags Border &amp; Immigration South Bay Immigration Kori Suzuki instagram email Kori Suzuki covers South San Diego County and the Imperial Valley for KPBS. He reports on the decisions of local government officials with a particular focus on environmental issues, housing affordability, and race and identity. He is especially drawn to stories that show how we are all complicated and multidimensional. See stories by Kori Suzuki Trending 🐴 Wieghorst Museum 🩺 Kaiser Permanente strike 🚲 Oceanside e-bike seizure Sign up for our newsletters! Keep up with all the latest news, arts and culture, and TV highlights from KPBS. Email address * Today's Top Stories TV Highlights The Catch Up KPBS/Arts KPBS' Most Popular KPBS Streaming Picks North County Focus Subscribe LATEST IN PODCASTS Proposed data center brings controversy to Imperial County LATEST IN EVENTS Firefighters for Hope – Cancer Walk LATEST IN TV HIGHLIGHTS FINDING YOUR ROOTS: The Road We Took Most Popular 40 years after Challenger: Lingering guilt and lessons learned Senate Democrats and Republicans call for investigation into killing of Alex Pretti 5 things to know about the latest Minneapolis shooting U.S. rock climber Alex Honnold reaches top of Taipei 101 skyscraper without ropes Videos and eyewitnesses refute federal account of Minneapolis shooting Fact-based local news is essential KPBS keeps you informed with local stories you need to know about — with no paywall. Our news is free for everyone because people like you help fund it. Without federal funding, community support is our lifeline. Make a gift to protect the future of KPBS. Donate Border Brief We're breaking down the complexities of immigration in the Trump era — from the mass deportation campaign to cross-border economics. In each episode hear from experts and dive into the data. Watch now → More News Border &amp; Immigration After second Minneapolis killing, San Diego elected officials say ‘Rubicon crossed’ and ICE is ‘executing American citizens’ Education Affordable housing for staff on San Diego school board agenda Environment Air Pollution Control District distributes 10,000 air purifiers in South Bay Quality of Life San Diego County open for Valentine&#x27;s Day weddings instagram tiktok youtube facebook About About Us &amp; Mission Newsletters Careers FCC &amp; Financial Mobile Apps Press Releases Privacy Policy Staff Terms of Service Help Audience and Member Services Closed Captioning Contact Us FAQs How do I listen? Passport Help Help Center Give Corporate Support Donate Membership Information Other Ways to Give Tax ID Vehicle Donation