Title: Dominican national passes away at Centro Medico Hospital in San Juan after narcotics/human smuggling interdiction
Published: 2025-03-03 00:00:00

SAN JUAN — Juan Alexis Tineo-Martinez, a 44-year-old Dominican Republic citizen who was taken into U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement custody, Feb. 21, following a maritime interdiction, was pronounced deceased by medical professionals at Centro Medico Hospital in San Juan Feb. 23. Tineo-Martinez was taken into custody along with three other Dominican nationals and one Colombian after ICE responded to a U.S. Customs and Border Protection Air Marine Operations interdiction notification of a vessel suspected of narcotics and human smuggling on Feb. 20. The cause of death is pending an autopsy by the Puerto Rico Forensic Science Institute.

ICE agents contacted local 911 after Tineo-Martinez alerted agents he was experiencing leg pain. He was immediately transferred to Centro Medico Hospital for evaluation. Tineo-Martinez was unresponsive to treatment.

Consistent with ICE protocols, the appropriate components were notified about the death, including the Department of Homeland Security Office of Inspector General, the ICE Office of Professional Responsibility, and the Consulate General of the Dominican Republic in San Juan who notified his next of kin.

Upon an official report of a detained illegal alien death, ICE makes official notifications to Congress, nongovernmental organization stakeholders, and the media and posts a news release with relevant details on the public website within two business days, per agency policy. This information may be accessed in the ICE.gov Newsroom. Additionally, congressional requirements described in the 2018 DHS appropriations bill require ICE to make public all reports regarding an in-custody death within 90 days. These reports may be accessed on the Detainee Death Reporting page.

ICE remains committed to ensuring that all those in its custody reside in safe, secure and humane environments. Comprehensive medical care is provided from the moment individuals arrive and throughout the entirety of their stay. All people in ICE custody receive medical, dental and mental health intake screening within 12 hours of arriving at each detention facility, a full health assessment within 14 days of entering ICE custody or arrival at a facility, and access to medical appointments and 24-hour emergency care.

The smuggling incident was accepted for prosecution by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Puerto Rico for drug trafficking and alien smuggling violations.