Popular Mexican restaurant raided by ICE in Jackson Skip to content Promote Your Business Watch Braves Baseball LawCall Birthday Club Careers News Watch Live First Alert Weather We The People Fight the Blight Today at 11 Studio 3 Sports Send in News Tips Contact Us Home Watch Live WLBT Apps Submit Your Pics First Alert Weather 24/7 First Alert Weather Stream SkyCams Closings Request a First Alert Weather School Visit News Hinds County Madison County Rankin County Education Crime National 3 On Your Side Investigates Crime Metro Crime Jackson Homicides Jackson Crime Mississippi Crime Fight the Blight WLBT+ Digital Desk Traffic Gas Prices Today at 11 Ask The Experts LawCall Mississippi Strong Taste and Toast with Jessica Business Spotlight Studio 3 Cowboy’s Kitchen Home Improvement Luxury Living Made in Mississippi Mississippi Weekend Staycation Vacation Taste Mississippi Holiday Gift Guide Business Spotlight Fire Safety Ugly Christmas Sweater Contest Shop Local We The People Sports Watch Pelicans Basketball Watch Braves Baseball Mississippi State Ole Miss Southern Miss Jackson State SWAC Saints The End Zone HS Football Scores Health Send in News Tips About Us Careers Meet the Team Programming How to Watch LawCall Gray DC Bureau Circle Country NextGen TV Zeam - News Streams InvestigateTV Watching Your Wallet PowerNation Promote Your Business Gray AI Policy Closings and Delays Dismiss Closings Alerts Bar 4 weather alerts in effect Dismiss Weather Alerts Alerts Bar Popular Mexican restaurant raided by ICE in Jackson The arrests occurred Wednesday at the Agave Mexican Bar and Grill off Ridgewood Road. By Christopher Fields Published : Jul. 17, 2025 at 10:15 PM CDT Email This Link Share on Facebook Share on X (formerly Twitter) Share on Pinterest Share on LinkedIn JACKSON, Miss. (WLBT) - What started as a normal workday for a couple of employees inside the Mexican restaurant turned out to be their last day on the job. The restaurant owner said he believes ICE agents were tipped off, and that prompted the raid on the establishment. “Everybody who knows that this is wrong needs to step up in any way they can,” said Charlotte Steele, a concerned citizen. On Wednesday afternoon, at around 1 p.m. is when the owner of Agave Mexican Bar and Grill said ICE agents raided his restaurant. According to the owner, he said four males and one female employee were all handcuffed and placed under arrest while on the job. On Madison County Detention Center’s website, there appear to have been eight undocumented immigrants arrested that day. However, it is unclear which of the eight are the five employees who were arrested. The owner also told 3 On Your Side that he had no knowledge any of the individuals were undocumented. All suspects arrested by ICE are currently being held at the Madison County Detention Center until they are transported to another facility. Concerned citizens in the metro area say they want to see these operations come to a halt. “They are kidnapping our citizens all over the country, and it’s wrong. They are being mistreated, incarcerated, and deported. For those who think they are deporting criminals, they aren’t. The people that are being arrested are people going to work,” Steele expressed. Since the arrests took place, the Agave Mexican Bar and Grill has remained closed. It is unclear at this time when or if the restaurant will open its doors once again. 3 On Your Side repeatedly reached out to ICE officials on Thursday for a statement or comment and is still waiting to hear back. Want more WLBT news in your inbox? Click here to subscribe to our newsletter. See a spelling or grammar error in our story? Please click here to report it and include the headline of the story in your email. Copyright 2025 WLBT. All rights reserved. Most Read Man killed, woman injured during shooting in Yazoo City ‘The Blind Side’ actor Quinton Aaron on life support after falling at home, reports say Man found dead in driveway of home in winter weather-related death Missing grandmother found safe at Walmart in Mississippi, family says 22-year-old killed during house fire in Jefferson County Mississippi man dead after iced over tree falls on mobile home First Alert Weather Day as Arctic Cold Grips Central Mississippi LIST: Colleges, schools across Mississippi shift schedules due to winter storm Latest News Warming Trend Builds Thursday, Rain Chances Increase Friday First Alert Weather Day as Arctic Cold Grips Central Mississippi Yazoo City residents seek shelter as power outages persist after winter storm Woman’s remains sent to medical examiner after fire in Brookhaven Airline passengers stranded by flight cancellations and delays Holmes County residents without water and power due to winter storm Jackson apartment fire under investigation by JFD Person injured in accidental shooting in Jackson News Watch Live First Alert Weather Sports Programming Careers About Us Send In News Tips WLBT 715 South Jefferson Street Jackson, MS 39201 (601)948-3333 Public Inspection File PUBLICFILE@WLBT.COM - 601-960-4436 Closed Captioning/Audio Description Terms of Service Privacy Policy EEO Report FCC Applications Advertising Non-Discrimination Certification Digital Marketing Click here to learn more about our approach to artificial intelligence. A Gray Local Media Station © 2002-2026