Title: Popular Mexican restaurant raided by ICE in Jackson
Published: 2025-07-18 00:00:00

JACKSON, Miss. (WLBT) - What started as a normal workday for a couple of employees inside the Mexican restaurant turned out to be their last day on the job.

The restaurant owner said he believes ICE agents were tipped off, and that prompted the raid on the establishment.

“Everybody who knows that this is wrong needs to step up in any way they can,” said Charlotte Steele, a concerned citizen.

On Wednesday afternoon, at around 1 p.m. is when the owner of Agave Mexican Bar and Grill said ICE agents raided his restaurant.

According to the owner, he said four males and one female employee were all handcuffed and placed under arrest while on the job.

On Madison County Detention Center’s website, there appear to have been eight undocumented immigrants arrested that day.

However, it is unclear which of the eight are the five employees who were arrested.

The owner also told 3 On Your Side that he had no knowledge any of the individuals were undocumented.

All suspects arrested by ICE are currently being held at the Madison County Detention Center until they are transported to another facility.

Concerned citizens in the metro area say they want to see these operations come to a halt.

“They are kidnapping our citizens all over the country, and it’s wrong. They are being mistreated, incarcerated, and deported. For those who think they are deporting criminals, they aren’t. The people that are being arrested are people going to work,” Steele expressed.

Since the arrests took place, the Agave Mexican Bar and Grill has remained closed.

It is unclear at this time when or if the restaurant will open its doors once again.

3 On Your Side repeatedly reached out to ICE officials on Thursday for a statement or comment and is still waiting to hear back.

Want more WLBT news in your inbox? Click here to subscribe to our newsletter.

See a spelling or grammar error in our story? Please click here to report it and include the headline of the story in your email.

Copyright 2025 WLBT. All rights reserved.