Protesters arrested amid clashes with federal agents outside Broadview ICE facility - CBS Chicago
Local News
Indiana News
Wisconsin News
Investigators
Politics
Consumer
HealthWatch
Entertainment
Business
All Weather
Chicago School Closings
Flight Delays O'Hare
Flight Delays Midway
All Sports
CBS Sports HQ
Bears
Bulls
Blackhawks
Cubs
White Sox
Fire
Red Stars
Sky
Odds
Station Info
Meet Our Team
Send a news tip
Advertise
Jobs & Internships
Contests & Promotions
Download App
Memorials
Watch CBS News
Protesters and ICE agents clashed multiple times on Friday outside a federal immigration facility in Broadview in Chicago's western suburbs.
Several protesters were led away in handcuffs throughout the day, and after dark, some protesters set of smoke bombs and fireworks, filling the air with smoke.
It was a tense and chaotic situation outside the ICE facility in Broadview for more than 12 hours as protesters repeatedly tried to block vehicles from leaving the parking lot.
The protest initially began around 5 a.m. Demonstrators have gathered at this facility weekly since the Trump administration announced they would be stepping up immigration enforcement efforts with "
Operation Midway Blitz
."
The first clash happened around 8:30 a.m., as ICE agents dragged and tackled protesters outside the facility as the crowd blocked the parking lot entrance. Tensions escalated whenever the gate to the facility opened. ICE agents formed a wall to guard the gate as their vehicles entered and exited, and protesters tried to block cars from any movement.
Popping sounds could be heard as agents on the roof and on the ground fired less-lethal ammunition to get the crowd out of the way. In one dramatic moment, a tear gas container was deployed into the crowd and then thrown back at agents. The protester who threw it back was immediately taken down and arrested.
One protester blocked a vehicle before being physically removed by agents who sprayed a chemical irritant. Another protester, the one who video shows threw the tear gas canister back the ICE facility, was taken into the facility and handcuffed on the ground.
Demonstrators at the scene said one protester was put in a van and taken "god knows where."
Kat Abughazaleh, who is running for Congress in Illinois' 9th district, said she was thrown by agents, and confirmed she saw a second protester taken into the ICE facility.
"All of us joined arms, we did not let the van pass. ICE came in and tried to drive the car through us, they almost ran someone over," she said. "We did not move, we stood strong, and that's when they brought out the pepper balls and the tear gas."
"We have no weapons, we have signs and chants and songs," she added. "They are treating us like it's a warzone."
Agents deploy tear gas during clash with protesters outside Broadview ICE facility
09:39
Feds criticize local police department for lack of response
DHS claimed they called police for assistance but got no response. However, Broadview police responded in a statement saying they "did not receive 'multiple calls for assistance' from the leadership of the ICE detention facility in Broadview. That is false."
The statement went on to stay the police department received one call from the facility at 11:39 a.m. to tell them about objects being thrown on the railway tracks behind the ICE facility, at which point police contacted the railroad to let them know so they could address those concerns.
A spokesperson for the police department said BPD had an agreement with ICE to be informed before any chemical arms were used, but said the department was not informed of that Friday morning. As a result, BPD said an officer was exposed to mace and tear gas used by ICE.
Police also said the Broadview Fire Department took one protester to a nearby hospital for treatment, but did not elaborate on their injuries.
Protesters and reporters had to run from the cloud of chemical smoke, which smelled like tear gas according to people at the scene. Some were seen sitting or laying on the ground, having water poured in their eyes.
"Even though I got hit hard and it was overwhelming and scary, it's nothing compared to what's happening in there," said Meridian Eck, one of the protesters who was affected by the tear gas. "They took someone, and that's why I'm here. They took someone and I have no idea what's happening."
Each escalation between protesters and agents happened when a vehicle tried to enter or leave the facility. When vehicles moved, the protesters would link arms to block its way.
Protesters said throughout the morning agents fired pepper balls, rubber bullets and smoke grenades at demonstrators.
CBS News Chicago's Darius Johnson recounts ICE tear gassing at Broadview protest
02:14
In a statement Friday morning, the U.S Department of Homeland Security said three people were arrested after the first clash at the site around 8:30 a.m.
By 11 a.m. the crowd of protesters had thinned, and while the crowd remained relatively small throughout the afternoon and evening, tensions escalated a few more times before nightfall.
At around noon, U.S. Customs and Border Protection Chief Gregory Bovino appeared at the facility gates, standing with armed and uniformed agents.
CBP Chief Gregory Bovino seen outside the Broadview ICE facility on Friday, Sept. 19.
In a statement, DHS claimed there were over 100 people at the protest, though video from CBS News Chicago's SkyWatch showed only a few dozen. They said the demonstrators assaulted law enforcement, threw tear gas cans, slashed tires and blocked the entrance of the building, characterizing them as "rioters."
CBS News Chicago did capture video of one van returning to the facility's gate with a flat tire. Protesters took credit for doing it, while the DHS blamed them for slashing tires.
4th protester arrested outside Broadview ICE facility
00:51
Tensions escalate again when woman knocked down after blocking ICE vehicle
At about 4:15 p.m., a fourth person was taken into custody outside the facility. She was standing outside the gate when it opened and an SUV tried to leave. Federal agents were seen firing a less-lethal munition at her, then pushing her out of the way and physically taking her into the facility.
A short time later, she came back out, disoriented and missing a shoe, with the help of another demonstrator who walked her across the street to a grassy area. Protesters confronted agents about her detention for a moment, before armed federal agents surrounded the woman and handcuffed her, leading her back into the ICE facility.
A Broadview Fire Department ambulance arrived a short time later, and paramedics began treating her in the parking lot before taking her to a hospital.
Later, around 6:45 p.m., protesters again clashed with ICE agents as a vehicle was leaving the parking lot. Agents appeared to fire tear gas and or pepper spray and several people in the crowd began fighting with agents.
One agent fell to the ground after someone tripped him. The agent got up and threw that person to the curb, as agents perched on the building's rooftops shot several rounds of pepper spray balls into the crowd.
People hit with tear gas or pepper spray poured water over their eyes from the burning sensation, as breathing became unbearable.
Agents could be seen chasing several people and tackling them to the ground. At least five people were handcuffed and taken into the parking lot before tensions calmed again.
At sunset, protesters set off smoke bombs and firecrackers, sending plumes of smoke into the air, making it harder for agents and protesters to see who was in front of them amid darkening skies.
Rabbi Michael Ben Yosef said many protesters believed the clashes were worth it to stand up for their beliefs.
"This is an attack on humanity," he said of the Trump administration's ongoing immigration crackdown in the Chicago area.
CBS News Chicago photojournalist George Umbenhauer was hit by a pepper spray ball while filming the clashes Friday evening. He described the pain as like that of a bee sting. ICE agents did offer an apology once they realized he was hit.
Illinois politicians join protesters outside facility
Along with Abughazaleh, Lt. Governor Juliana Stratton joined the protesters around 4:30 a.m. to speak out against ICE enforcement.
"People are here to peacefully protest," Stratton, who is running for Senate, said. "Look what we have been seeing over the past several weeks right here in Chicago. People are being snatched off the streets, stuffed into unmarked vans with no due process."
She said this week there have been attacks on First Amendment rights, and it has caused fear.
Lt. Governor Juliana Stratton joins protesters in Broadview
03:34
"I'm here to stand with Illinoisians who are protesting peacefully," Stratton said.
Evanston Mayor Daniel Biss, who is also a candidate to replace Rep. Jan Schakowsky in Congress, was also at the protest Friday morning, alongside what looked to be Chicago Ald. Andre Vasquez (40th).
U.S. Rep. Robin Kelly's office said she also went to the facility on Friday afternoon.
Broadview facility target of protesters since start of "Operation Midway Blitz"
Last week, protesters faced heavily armed agents in military gear. Some protesters were hit with chemical agents and rubber bullets.
Immigrant rights advocates and Chicago activists have been protesting outside
ICE facilities in the suburbs
since last week, and more protests were planned with the enhanced enforcement operation underway.
The efforts come weeks after the
Trump administration first signaled it would be drastically ramping up U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement operations in Chicago
.
The department did not say how long the operation is expected to last.
Organizers are working in the community to inform residents of their rights; the city of Chicago offers "Know Your Rights" guides in both
English
and
Spanish
.
In:
Immigration
Chicago
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
Protest
Featured Local Savings
Fiery confrontations between protesters and ICE agents in Broadview
Fiery confrontations between protesters and ICE agents in Broadview
03:53
Fiery confrontations between protesters and ICE agents in Broadview
(03:53)
Protesters gathered to rally against federal agents, Trump admin in the Loop
Marin County protesters rally against ICE, Border Patrol after killing of Alex Pretti
Some Border Patrol agents in Alex Pretti shooting had body cams, officials confirm
Philly protesters rally in support of Minnesota after another deadly shooting
Philly lawmakers to introduce legislation to limit how ICE operates in city
More protests in Chicago after federal agents shoot, kill Minneapolis resident
DHS Secretary Kristi Noem under scrutiny as Bovino exits Minnesota
Georgia lawmakers react after Border Patrol agent kills man in Minneapolis
View CBS News In
CBS News App
Open
Chrome
Safari
Continue