Judge Slams ICE for Overcrowding and Inhumane Conditions at 26 Federal Plaza Lockup | THE CITY — NYC News Discover new ways of seeing THE CITY. Get THE CITY SCOOP, our free morning newsletter. Sign up Close Donate Search for: Search Facebook Page Twitter Instagram Search GO Newsletters newsletters Get THE CITY sent right to your inbox. Podcast FAQ NYC The New Yorkest podcast. Twice weekly. Featured IMPACT Our journalism makes a positive impact on the lives of New Yorkers. How to New York Your questions answered about the greatest city in the world. What We're REPORTING CITY HALL Climate Criminal Justice Economy HOUSING IMMIGRATION Labor NYPD Transit Follow Us Twitter Bluesky Facebook Instagram RSS Feed About Us Ways to Give merch store About Us Contact US Team Awards REPUBLISH Close Search GO Newsletters newsletters Get THE CITY sent right to your inbox. Podcast FAQ NYC The New Yorkest podcast. Twice weekly. Featured IMPACT Our journalism makes a positive impact on the lives of New Yorkers. How to New York Your questions answered about the greatest city in the world. What We're REPORTING CITY HALL Climate Criminal Justice Economy HOUSING IMMIGRATION Labor NYPD Transit Follow Us Twitter Bluesky Facebook Instagram RSS Feed About Us Ways to Give merch store About Us Contact US Team Awards REPUBLISH Skip to content Menu THE CITY - NYC News Reporting to New Yorkers Donate Open Search Search for: Search Donate Menu Get THE CITY's headlines in your inbox every morning. GO Posted in Trump Administration Judge Slams ICE for Overcrowding and Inhumane Conditions at 26 Federal Plaza Lockup A federal judge granted a preliminary injunction Wednesday, which extends capacity restrictions inside an ICE holding area at 26 Federal Plaza. by Gwynne Hogan Sept. 17, 2025, 2:26 p.m. Sept. 17, 2025, 2:51 p.m. Republish Republish this story Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky More Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Federal agents guard a stairwell while their colleagues detain people leaving immigration court inside 26 Federal Plaza, Aug. 7, 2025. Credit: Ben Fractenberg/THE CITY Support local news today! Our nonprofit newsroom relies on readers like you to power investigations like these. Join the community that powers NYC&#8217;s independent local news. Make THE CITY Your Go-To For Local News Follow us on Google News ⭐️ A federal judge Wednesday extended limits on the number of immigrants ICE can hold at 26 Federal Plaza in Lower Manhattan and requirements that it provide detainees with basic humanitarian needs and access to legal representation. In an opinion published Wednesday, Judge Lewis Kaplan sided with immigrants represented by the NYCLU, the ACLU and Make the Road New York, agreeing with characterizations in more than a dozen affidavits of overcrowding, unsanitary conditions, limited access to food and water, and no ability to contact their attorneys confidentially. “ICE has forced these detainees into facilities that are too small to accommodate the numbers, that never were intended to hold people overnight, that are unequipped to feed them properly, and that, more broadly, are not capable of housing the detainees in a humane manner,” Kaplan wrote. “Whatever the merits of the Administration’s determination to deport illegal aliens — and the Court expresses no view of that issue, which is beyond the scope of this case — we must remember that this is the United States of America. We aspire to treat all Americans – and those among us – with humanity. We are legally and morally bound to adhere to the Constitution and Laws of the United States with respect to everyone within our borders.” Kaplan’s preliminary injunction continues a requirement first put in place in August, that people held inside 26 Federal Plaza have at least 50 square feet of space per person, be provided three meals a day, sanitary products, sleeping mats for the floor and fresh bedding, as well as the ability to talk to lawyers confidentially if they spend more than 24 hours inside. Latest Headlines How NYC Schools Handled a Remote Snow Day January 26, 2026 Jan. 26, 2026, 5:59 p.m. Climbing Bus Stop Mountain: Snowfall Makes a Mess of Wheeled Commutes January 26, 2026 Jan. 26, 2026, 5:50 p.m. City Investigating Seven Outdoor Deaths as Cold Snap Sets In January 26, 2026 Jan. 26, 2026, 10:16 p.m. NYC Schools to Go Remote Monday as Snow Blankets City January 25, 2026 Jan. 25, 2026, 3:01 p.m. Eunice Cho, the senior counsel with the ACLU’s National Prison Project, welcomed Kaplan’s ruling, which cited THE CITY’s previous reporting on the number of people held inside ICE holding areas and the amount of time they were kept there.&nbsp; “ICE’s conduct at 26 Federal Plaza is inhumane, illegal and a direct violation of the Constitution,” she wrote. “No person should be denied medical care, access to a lawyer, or basic dignity when they are held in government custody – and we’ll continue to fight to hold ICE accountable.”&nbsp; Spokespeople for ICE and for Homeland Security didn’t respond to THE CITY’s request for comment right away. But in a social media post reacting to the ruling , DHS issued a nearly identical statement to those published over many months, again denying any mistreatment of detainees at 26 Federal Plaza. “26 Federal Plaza is not a detention center. It is processing center where illegal aliens are briefly processed to be transferred to an ICE detention facility. Any claim that there is overcrowding or subprime conditions at ICE facilities are categorically false. All detainees are provided with proper meals, medical treatment, and have opportunities to communicate with their family members and lawyers.” ICE’s 10th floor lockup is the centralized processing area where immigrants arrested in and around New York City are taken before being shipped off to detention centers around the country.&nbsp; For years ahead of the latest arrest spike, just a handful of people would pass through the holding areas on any given day, often in a matter of hours, ICE’s own internal data shows.&nbsp; But as arrests surged in late May , the number of people simultaneously held inside and the length of time they were spending both shot through the roof, THE CITY previously reported.&nbsp; We cover NYC on historic days and every day. Sign up for free morning headlines in your inbox. Sign up Concerns about conditions inside were mounting for weeks, while several members of Congress, who are supposed to have a right to inspect conditions inside ICE facilities where immigrants are held, were repeatedly barred entry. They have sued to gain access to the floor in litigation that is ongoing.&nbsp; Video of conditions inside the 10th floor of 26 Federal Plaza. A video taken by someone held inside first reported on by THE CITY appeared to confirm the stark overcrowding and deplorable conditions inside by a person filming who described being treated “like dogs.” ICE attorneys had opposed the judge’s earlier temporary restraining, testifying that would mean the agency could hold just 22 people at once inside the four holding rooms on the 10th floor, far fewer than the nearly 200 people held there on several nights in June and July as arrests were spiking, THE CITY reported.&nbsp; Despite their opposition, in an August 18 memo Nancy Zanello, the New York assistant field office director of ICE’s Enforcement and Removal Operations told Judge Kaplan just eight people were being held inside, though ICE has provided no additional updates since.&nbsp; In his opinion Wednesday, Kaplan slammed Zanello’s written testimony to the court, pointing out she had only presented information about current conditions and offered nothing to contest the deplorable conditions described during May, June and July, ahead of the judge’s temporary restraining order.&nbsp; “The statistics are unpersuasive,” Kaplan wrote. “The Court does not consider her testimony as effectively rebutting plaintiff’s evidence of actual day-to-day conditions in the 26 Fed Hold Rooms.” In the days after immigrant advocates sued in August, the city saw an initial drop in arrests inside immigration courthouses, and an apparent lull that extended through much of August, though advocates say courthouse arrests have once again picked up again in the weeks since Labor Day.&nbsp; The win for immigrant advocates Wednesday in New York comes on the heels of a blow against them several days earlier. On Friday a federal judge also in New York declined to step in to block ICE’s practice of targeting people inside immigration courthouses for arrest as that lawsuit proceeds, which has disproportionately impacted New York City.&nbsp; That ruling means masked federal agents can continue to stalk the hallways of immigration courthouses as they have nearly every day since late May.&nbsp; Related Gwynne Hogan Senior Reporter ghogan@thecity.nyc Gwynne Hogan is a senior reporter covering immigration, homelessness, and many things in between. Her coverage of the migrant crisis earned her the Newswomen’s Club of New York’s Journalist of the... More by Gwynne Hogan What Happens Next January 1st didn’t just launch a new year, but a new administration — and new energy — in New York City. Even as Mayor Mamdani settles into City Hall, things are already starting to shift. The decisions that shape the next four years start happening fast, and it's critical that you have someone who can help you understand them. I cover City Hall — I was there when the mayor was sworn in and I’ll be there every day tracking what happens now: when campaign promises meet reality and when early choices have lasting consequences for New Yorkers. That’s where THE CITY comes in. We’ll be tracking which policies get prioritized, who is put in place to advance them, and how this new administration uses its power — not just in big moments, but day after day. You counted on us during the election. You can count on us now, as this administration begins. And you can help us ensure we’re there, day after day, with your support. I hope you’ll make a gift today. Katie Honan City Hall Reporter DONATE NOW THE CITY is an independent nonprofit newsroom dedicated to serving the people of New York. Questions? info@thecity.nyc THE CITY is published by City Report, Inc. Follow Us Twitter Bluesky Facebook Instagram RSS Feed ABOUT TEAM FUNDERS ETHICS DIVERSITY DONATE CONTACT REPUBLISH CAREERS Subscribe to THE CITY SCOOP Sign up and get everything you need to know to be an active New Yorker delivered to your inbox each morning. See more. GO This site is protected by reCAPTCHA . &copy; 2026 The City Report, Inc. All Rights Reserved Powered by Newspack Facebook Page Twitter Instagram Gift this article Close Link Copy link