Judge orders ICE to improve conditions for detainees at NYC holding facility - ABC News ABC News Live Video Shows Shop Interest Successfully Added We&#x27;ll notify you here with news about Turn on desktop notifications for breaking stories about interest? Off On Stream on Judge orders ICE to improve conditions for detainees at NYC holding facility He granted a preliminary injunction regarding conditions at 26 Federal Plaza. By Laura Romero September 17, 2025, 3:32 PM 0:24 New video obtained by ABC News purports to show the conditions inside a so-called "holding facility" for detained migrants inside a federal building in New York City. New York Immigration Coalition A federal judge on Wednesday ordered the Trump administration to improve conditions for detained migrants at a holding facility inside a federal building in New York City. U.S. District Judge Lewis Kaplan granted a preliminary injunction requiring U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement to ensure cleanliness, limit capacity, and improve access to legal phone calls at the holding facility located at 26 Federal Plaza in lower Manhattan. The ruling follows a lawsuit filed on behalf of detainees who alleged they were being denied access to attorneys, medication, hygiene products, and adequate food as the Trump administration continues its immigration crackdown . &#x27;Like dogs&#x27;: Video appears to show migrants held in federal building in NYC &quot;Whatever the merits of the Administration&#x27;s determination to deport illegal aliens --and the Court expresses no view of that issue, which is beyond the scope of this case -- we must remember that this is the United States of America,&quot; Judge Kaplan wrote in his order. &quot;We aspire to treat all Americans -- and those among us -- with humanity.&quot; A video obtained by ABC News in July showed over a dozen people inside a room in the holding facility, with several lying on the floor on thermal blankets or sitting on benches. The person who filmed the video also showed two toilets separated from the rest of the room by only a waist-high wall. The New York Immigration Coalition, one of the advocacy groups representing the detainees, said the video confirmed the facility was being used as a detention center rather than a short-term holding center. New video obtained by ABC News purports to show the conditions inside a so-called "holding facility" for detained migrants inside a federal building in New York City. New York Immigration Coalition Judge Kaplan said that ICE had changed its guidelines in June to permit so-called short-term holding facilities to be used for longer detentions. Popular Reads Minneapolis live updates: Acting ICE director must appear in court, judge rules 23 minutes ago Winter storm live updates: 220 million Americans on alert for extreme cold 1 hour ago Minneapolis ICE shooting updates: Over 3,000 arrested in Minnesota, DHS says Jan 18, 2:39 PM &quot;ICE&#x27;s expanded enforcement efforts produced -- and reportedly continue to produce -- a surge of detainees that has overwhelmed existing facilities and strained operational resources,&quot; the judge wrote in his ruling. Eunice Cho, an attorney with the American Civil Liberties Union, called the ruling an &quot;important win&quot; for immigrants&#x27; rights. &quot;No person should be denied medical care, access to a lawyer, or basic dignity when they are held in government custody -- and we&#x27;ll continue to fight to hold ICE accountable,&quot; Cho said. Related Topics Immigration New York Sponsored Content by Taboola Popular Reads Minneapolis live updates: Acting ICE director must appear in court, judge rules 23 minutes ago Minneapolis ICE shooting updates: Over 3,000 arrested in Minnesota, DHS says Jan 18, 2:39 PM Winter storm live updates: 220 million Americans on alert for extreme cold 1 hour ago A minute-by-minute timeline of fatal shooting of Alex Pretti involving federal agents Jan 26, 9:33 PM ABC News Live 24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events ABC News Network Privacy Policy Your US State Privacy Rights Children&#x27;s Online Privacy Policy Interest-Based Ads About Nielsen Measurement Terms of Use Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Contact Us © 2026 ABC News