Maryland pastor returns home a month after being detained by ICE agents - CBS Baltimore
Local
Maryland
Best of
WJZ at 9
Politics
Consumer
Business
Health
Entertainment
First Alert Weather
Radar & Maps
Closings/Delays
Weather Watchers
All Sports
CBS Sports HQ
Ravens
Orioles
Terps
College Sports
Horse Racing
Golf
Odds
WJZ at 9
Community MVP
Volunteer with WJZ
WJZ and the Baltimore Banner
HealthyMD
WJZ Investigates
AFRAM
Black History Month
About Us
Meet The Team
Contact Us
Share A News Tip
Links & Numbers
Nominate An MVP
Advertise With Us
Download The App
Watch CBS News
A Maryland pastor is back home with his family almost a month after he was detained by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents who said he overstayed his visa by 25 years.
Daniel Fuentes Espinal
, 54, was granted bond and released from an ICE detention center in Louisiana, according to family friend Len Foxwell.
"Pastor Fuentes Espinal and his family are together again for the first time since that terrible morning of July 21, when a pastor and father of three said goodbye to his wife and children, left for work, and never came home,"
Foxwell said in a social media post
on Thursday.
Foxwell says Fuentes Espinal's family and his congregation at Iglesia Del Nazareno Jesus Te Ama are thrilled to have him back. He says the family will continue working to secure the pastor a green card.
"Pillar of our community"
"Pastor Fuentes Espinal is a pillar of our community," Foxwell said. "He has been here for 24 years, has never been charged with a crime, and more importantly, he's been the moral and spiritual center of a tight-knit community on the Eastern Shore."
Foxwell said the community raised money to help the family with legal and travel expenses as they fought for his release. Fuentes Espinal's oldest daughter flew down to Louisiana to get him and they were home in Easton by Friday night.
"I'm just very happy and my heart is full," daughter Clarissa Fuentes Diaz said in a video to the community. "Thank you so much and may God bless you."
Maryland pastor detained by ICE
The Easton, Maryland, community rallied in support of Fuentes Espinal after he was detained in July while on his way to work.
Fuentes Espinal is a pastor at Iglesia Del Nazareno Jesus Te Ama and a construction worker. He has lived in the U.S. since 2001 and does not have a criminal record, according to Foxwell.
Foxwell said Fuentes Espinal's family has been working for years to secure a green card for him.
According to ICE, Fuentes Espinal, a Honduran national, "entered the United States on a 6-month visa and never left in 24 years."
"It is a federal crime to overstay the authorized period of time granted under a visitor's visa," an ICE spokesperson said.
Pastor Fuentes Espinal's detainment
After his arrest, Fuentes Espinal was taken to a detention center in Salisbury before he was transferred to a facility in Baltimore, then to the Winn Correctional Facility in Louisiana.
Foxwell said Fuentes Espinal described deplorable conditions during his three-night stay at the detention center in Baltimore before he was transferred to the facility in Louisiana.
"He spent three days at a detention center in Baltimore, sleeping on a cold bench with barely enough food to eat," Foxwell said. "He didn't have a shower, he didn't have a sink of his own, he didn't have a toilet... He didn't even have a bed to sleep on."
Foxwell said Fuentes Espinal had little contact with his family while he was detained.
"They actually charge $50 for a phone call for a family that's already lost their primary breadwinner. That's a huge financial hit," he said.
Maryland leaders, protesters show support
Shortly after his arrest,
activists in Baltimore rallied
in support of Fuentes Espinal.
"People are leading into that hate, but we can't be doing that anymore. It is too late at this point in the game to hate, and I am imploring everybody to come out here and love instead," said Annalese Estepp, who attended the march that ended near Baltimore ICE's detention center in the George H. Fallon federal building.
U.S. Senator Chris Van Hollen also offered support, saying his team was working with the Fuentes Espinal family.
More from CBS News
Philly lawmakers to introduce legislation to limit how ICE operates in city
Jasmine Crockett compares ICE enforcement operations to slave patrols, as she campaigns
Georgia lawmakers react after Border Patrol agent kills man in Minneapolis
Teachers and friends of family detained by ICE for 7 months "appalled" at bond denial
Gov. Kathy Hochul calls for removal of DHS Secretary Kristi Noem
In:
Immigration
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
Featured Local Savings
Maryland pastor returns home a month after being detained by ICE agents
Maryland pastor returns home a month after being detained by ICE agents
02:30
Maryland pastor returns home a month after being detained by ICE agents
(02:30)
Philly lawmakers to introduce legislation to limit how ICE operates in city
Jasmine Crockett compares ICE enforcement operations to slave patrols, as she campaigns
Georgia lawmakers react after Border Patrol agent kills man in Minneapolis
Teachers and friends of family detained by ICE for 7 months "appalled" at bond denial
Gov. Kathy Hochul calls for removal of DHS Secretary Kristi Noem
More protests in Chicago after federal agents shoot, kill Minneapolis resident
Walz: Trump agrees to consider reducing federal surge in Minnesota
Philly protesters rally in support of Minnesota after another deadly shooting
View CBS News In
CBS News App
Open
Chrome
Safari
Continue