Gov. Reynolds directs Iowa National Guard to support federal immigration enforcement mission | Governor Kim Reynolds Skip to main content Official State of Iowa Website Agencies A-Z Programs & Services Governor Kim Reynolds Search Menu Main navigation About the Governor About the Governor sub-navigation Meet the First Gentleman Meet Lieutenant Governor Chris Cournoyer Executive Orders Apply for an Internship Vision for Iowa Vision for Iowa sub-navigation Agriculture Education Health Care Law and Order Tax Reform Veterans Newsroom Newsroom sub-navigation Press Materials Services Services sub-navigation Submit a Scheduling Request Request a Proclamation Request a Greeting Pardons &amp; Commutations Voting Rights Restoration Contact Contact sub-navigation Request Assistance Share Your Opinion America 250 America 250 sub-navigation Get Involved Governor’s Task Force Iowa America 250 Events Agencies A-Z Online Services Gov. Reynolds directs Iowa National Guard to support federal immigration enforcement mission Tuesday, August 12, 2025 Press Release In response to a request by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Governor Reynolds has directed the Iowa National Guard to commence a supportive federal Title 32 mission alongside Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) beginning September 8, 2025.&nbsp;&nbsp; Twenty Iowa National Guard soldiers will provide administrative and logistical support to Iowa-based ICE officials in enforcing immigration laws. The current authorization is approved by the Secretary of Defense through November 15, 2025.&nbsp;&nbsp; “Just as we supported Texas when the Biden Administration left them to defend the border, Iowa will continue to assist in the enforcement of federal immigration laws — this time, by working with the Trump Administration to support U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials in our state,” Governor Reynolds said. “By providing administrative and logistical support, the Iowa National Guard will free up local ICE officials to continue their work outside the office to enforce the law and keep our state safe.” Secondary Navigation Menu Home (parent section) About the Governor Meet the First Gentleman Meet Lieutenant Governor Chris Cournoyer Executive Orders Apply for an Internship Vision for Iowa Agriculture Education Health Care Law and Order Tax Reform Veterans Newsroom Press Materials Services Submit a Scheduling Request Request a Proclamation Request a Greeting Pardons &amp; Commutations Voting Rights Restoration Contact Request Assistance Share Your Opinion America 250 Get Involved Governor’s Task Force Iowa America 250 Events Governor Kim Reynolds Footer Social Media Menu Opens in a new window. Opens in a new window. Opens in a new window. Office of the Governor 1007 East Grand Avenue Des Moines , IA 50319 Phone 515-281-5211 How can we help? Share feedback with us Footer Menu Footer Join a Board or Commission Submit an Open Records Request Iowa DOGE Task Force Report Child Care Task Force Report Governor&#039;s Economic Recovery Advisory Board Report Executive Council of Iowa Subscribe to Notifications Accessibility Assistance Contact Menu Send Feedback © 2026 State of Iowa - Read our accessibility, data, and privacy policies .