Detained immigrant families protest inside Texas facility The Best of the Tribune in your Inbox Keep tabs on Texas politics and policy with our morning newsletter. Sign up Close Search for: Search Investigations Guides About Events Data Newsletters Donate Close Skip to content Investigations Guides About Events Data Newsletters Donate The Texas Tribune Independent news. Trusted by Texans. Open Search Search for: Search Donate Menu Topic Menu Donate Winter Storm Updates Democratic Senate Debate 2026 Elections ICE in Texas Hemp Regulations About Corrections and Clarifications About The Texas Tribune | Staff | Contact | Send a Confidential Tip | Ethics | Republish Our Work | Jobs | Awards | Corrections | Strategic Plan | Downloads | Documents Our reporting on all platforms will be truthful, transparent and respectful; our facts will be accurate, complete and fairly presented. When we make a mistake — and from time to time, we will — we will work quickly to fully address the error, correcting it within the story, detailing the error on the story page and adding it to this running list of Tribune corrections. If you find an error, email corrections@texastribune.org . Posted in State Government Immigrant families protest inside Texas facility housing 5-year-old boy, father detained in Minnesota Liam Conejo Ramos and his father were detained in Minnesota in an incident that’s further inflamed tensions over the Trump administration’s hardline immigration enforcement. By Valerie Gonzalez,&nbsp; Associated Press , and&nbsp; Berenice Garcia &nbsp; Jan. 24, 2026, 7:13 p.m. Central Share this: Share Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Detainees held at the South Texas Family Residential Center wave signs during a demonstration in Dilley on Jan. 24, 2026. AP Photo/Brenda Bazán Sign up for The Brief , The Texas Tribune’s daily newsletter that keeps readers up to speed on the most essential Texas news. Audio recording is automated for accessibility. Humans wrote and edited the story. See our AI policy , and give us feedback . Dozens of immigrant families protested Saturday behind the fences of a Texas detention facility where a 5-year-old Ecuadorian boy and his father were sent this week after being detained in Minnesota. Aerial photos taken by The Associated Press showed children and parents at the South Texas Family Residential Center clad in jackets and sweaters, some of them holding signs that included “Libertad para los niños,” or “Liberty for the kids.” Families could also be heard outside chanting “Libertad!” or “Let us go,” said Eric Lee, an immigration attorney who was there to visit a client at the facility in the town of Dilley, south of San Antonio. “The message we want to send is for them to treat us with dignity and according to the law. We’re immigrants, with children, not criminals,” Maria Alejandra Montoya Sanchez, 31, told the AP in a phone interview from the facility after the demonstration. She and her 9-year-old daughter have been held at Dilley since October. Officials with the Department of Homeland Security have not responded to questions about the situation. Federal authorities Saturday abruptly ushered visitors out of the facility, according to Lee, an attorney who planned to meet with his clients there. In an interview with The Texas Tribune, Lee said that about 30 minutes after he was told to leave the facility, a client inside the facility told him in a phone call that detainees had begun protesting the detainment of 5-year-old Liam Conejo Ramos and the treatment of people protesting Immigration and Customs Enforcement across the country. “When I was in the waiting room, waiting to meet [clients], I heard guards come out and say, ‘Everybody out right now,’” Lee told the Tribune. “They looked white faced. They were very concerned, obviously, by whatever was happening.” Ramos was taken with his father to the facility after they were detained by immigration officials outside their home in Minnesota on Tuesday, an incident that ignited a nationwide uproar . Family and neighbors said federal agents used the boy as bait to get his mother to open the door. Government officials, however, called that account of events a lie. Earlier Saturday, a federal immigration officer shot and killed a man in Minneapolis. That city has become the epicenter of mounting tensions over the Trump administration’s hardline immigration enforcement in American cities. Saturday’s shooting came just weeks after an immigration officer fatally shot 37-year-old Renee Good in Minneapolis, sparking nationwide protests, including in Texas cities. As he left the facility, Lee said he heard children inside chanting “libertad,” Spanish for “liberty.” He posted a video on social media that appears to show people inside the facility shouting and then someone associated with the center telling Lee to stop recording. “According to what I heard, they view this as part of this broader protest, and they’re appealing for help, and they’re appealing to the country and the world’s population to come to their support and free them all from this place,” Lee said. Built in 2014, the South Texas Family Residential Center is currently the only family detention center in the U.S. After President Joe Biden ended the practice of detaining families, the facility shut down in 2024, but it reopened after President Donald Trump returned to office last year. The detention center has faced criticisms of unsafe conditions from attorneys whose clients were held there and who reported potentially unsafe water and delayed medical attention. “The current conditions at Dilley are fundamentally unsafe for anyone, let alone young children,” Neha Desai, managing director at the National Center for Youth Law, said in a statement. “Since the re-opening of family detention, hundreds of families – including babies and toddlers – have been subjected to substandard medical care, degrading and harsh treatment and extremely prolonged times in custody.” The Trump administration sought to end protections for children held in detention that are in place through the Flores Settlement Agreement. The 1997 agreement requires that children be treated humanely and that officials should prioritize their release. The Flores agreement received renewed attention during the first Trump administration, when federal officials implemented its zero-tolerance policy of charging all adults who illegally crossed the border with a crime. The policy led to the separation of adults from children, a practice that came to be known as family separation, in order to comply with the Flores agreement. Though it prompted a national outcry, Trump’s hard stance on immigration in part propelled him to a second term in office. As Trump has directed federal agents to carry out his promise of mass deportations, Texas has been an enthusiastic partner. Officers with the Texas Department of Public Safety helped arrest more than 3,000 undocumented immigrants across the state in 2025. Sheriffs throughout Texas have also signed agreements to work with ICE and a new state law requires all counties to enter into such agreements. One in four ICE arrests from Trump’s second inauguration through July 2025 occurred in Texas. Texas also has the highest concentration of immigration detention facilities in the U.S. Over the last two months, ICE reported four deaths throughout their detention facilities including that of a 55-year-old Cuban detainee. His death was ruled a homicide by the El Paso Medical Examiner’s office. Reporting in the Rio Grande Valley is supported in part by the Methodist Healthcare Ministries of South Texas, Inc. &nbsp; Learn about The Texas Tribune’s policies , including our partnership with&nbsp; The Trust Project &nbsp;to increase transparency in news. You've read article this month. You have unlimited free articles remaining because we don't have a paywall. Texans need the truth. Help us report it. Independent Texas reporting needs your support. The Texas Tribune delivers fact-based journalism for Texans, by Texans — and our community of members, the readers who donate, make our work possible. Help us bring you and millions of others in-depth news and information. Will you support our nonprofit newsroom with a donation of any amount? Support Independent Texas News Become a member. Join today. Choose an amount or learn more about membership . $18 $20 $25 Other Donate Now You've read articles this month. You have unlimited free articles remaining because we don't have a paywall. Texans need the truth. Help us report it. Independent Texas reporting needs your support. The Texas Tribune delivers fact-based journalism for Texans, by Texans — and our community of members, the readers who donate, make our work possible. Help us bring you and millions of others in-depth news and information. Will you support our nonprofit newsroom with a donation of any amount? Support Independent Texas News Become a member. Join today. Choose an amount or learn more about membership . $18 $20 $25 Other Donate Now Tagged: Donald Trump Berenice Garcia Rio Grande Valley Reporter berenice.garcia@texastribune.org x Berenice Garcia is a regional reporter covering the Rio Grande Valley. She works at the Tribune as a corps members with Report for America. She previously covered local government, crime, healthcare and... More by Berenice Garcia READ MORE Plane tied to prominent Houston law firm crashes in Maine, killing six Jan. 26, 2026 Jan. 26, 2026, 8:53 p.m. Central Judge orders early voting in Houston congressional election extended after winter storm disruptions Jan. 26, 2026 Jan. 26, 2026, 7:43 p.m. Central What you need to know before voting in Texas’ March 3 primary elections Jan. 13, 2026 Jan. 26, 2026, 6:00 p.m. Central Steelworkers union leader emerges as sleeper in Texas’ Democratic lieutenant governor primary Jan. 26, 2026 Understanding Texas’ big investment in dementia research Dec. 22, 2025 Jan. 21, 2026, 11:48 a.m. Central January 21, 2026 View More Events latest from our reporters GOP Sen. Cruz, Rep. McCaul call for investigation after federal agents fatally shoot man in Minneapolis by Gabby Birenbaum Jan. 26, 2026 Jan. 26, 2026, 2:38 p.m. Central Gov. Greg Abbott wants Texas universities, schools to disclose information on H-1B visa hirings by Jessica Priest Jan. 26, 2026 Jan. 26, 2026, 12:46 p.m. Central Texas winter storm updates: Power grid holds up through its tightest condition on Monday, Gov. Abbott says By Texas Tribune Staff Jan. 24, 2026 Jan. 26, 2026, 10:50 a.m. Central Anti-Islam rhetoric takes center stage in Texas Republican primary by Gabby Birenbaum Jan. 26, 2026 El Paso’s plan to build natural gas power plant for massive data center kicks up opposition By Martha Pskowski,&nbsp; Inside Climate News Jan. 26, 2026 Immigrant families protest inside Texas facility housing 5-year-old boy, father detained in Minnesota By Valerie Gonzalez,&nbsp; Associated Press , and&nbsp; Berenice Garcia &nbsp; Jan. 24, 2026 Ken Paxton: Comptroller can exclude schools from voucher program under anti-terror laws by Jessica Priest Jan. 24, 2026 Jasmine Crockett, James Talarico show different fighting styles in first debate of Senate Democratic primary by Kayla Guo Jan. 24, 2026 Jan. 24, 2026, 5:18 p.m. Central Texas officials say the power grid will hold through winter storm, but local outages are likely By Joshua Fechter and&nbsp; Alejandra Martinez Jan. 21, 2026 Jan. 24, 2026, 1:11 p.m. Central Congressman Wesley Hunt draws scrutiny for missed votes amid campaign for U.S. Senate by Olivia Borgula Jan. 23, 2026 Donate View your giving history Contact Us Advertise Send us a confidential tip Topics Congress Courts Criminal Justice Demographics Economy Energy Environment Health Care Higher Education Immigration Politics Public Education State Government Transportation Info About Us Our Staff Board of Directors Jobs Who Funds Us? Strategic Plan Republishing Guidelines Code of Ethics Terms of Service Privacy Policy Corrections Newsletters Audio Video RSS Feeds Social Media Facebook X YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Reddit &copy; 2026 The Texas Tribune Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Gift this article Close Link Copy link