Title: Anti-ICE demonstrator blinded by federal agent in Santa Ana speaks out
Authors: Josh Dubose
Published: 2026-01-15 07:06:43+00:00

A demonstrator blinded by a less lethal munition during an anti-ICE protest outside the federal building in Santa Ana late last week is speaking out about the harrowing ordeal.

Kaden Rummler, 21, a self-described leftist and member of an activist group called “Dare to Struggle,” was participating in the Jan. 9 protest sparked by the fatal shooting of Renee Good in Minneapolis at the hands of a federal agent.

Footage from the Santa Ana protest shows demonstrators lighting an American flag on fire moments before a confrontation with agents outside the federal building grew violent.

During the ordeal, one of the federal officers pulled a protester, later identified as Sky Jones, out of the group. Rummler rushed after his friend but was stopped almost immediately by a less lethal round fired at close range that struck his left eye.

“When it hit me, I kind of didn’t realize what happened. I remember falling to my knees and I remember I covered my head. It was just this pressure and ringing in my years,” Rummler recalled. “I had so much adrenaline from the impact that I wasn’t really feeling it yet, I don’t think.”

Footage then shows an agent dragging the 21-year-old across the plaza, his face covered in blood running down onto his clothes and his shoes, the same clothes he wore for his interview with KTLA’s Chris Wolfe.

“I was like, ‘I can’t breathe, I can’t breathe,’ and he just kept dragging me and didn’t say a word,” Rummler added. “He was on top of me and putting my hands behind my back really aggressively and handcuffing me. I was pleading with him. I was like, ‘Please call an ambulance, there’s so much blood.”

An ambulance eventually arrived, but only after Rummler says that agents mocked him about his injured eye.

Kaden Rummler, 21, seen after being shot by a federal agent at close range with a less lethal munition in the eye in Santa Ana on Jan. 9, 2026. (viewer image)

Video shows Southern California ICE protest turn violent amid nationwide uproar. Jan. 9, 2026. (OC Hawk)

Video shows Southern California ICE protest turn violent amid nationwide uproar. Jan. 9, 2026. (OC Hawk)

Video shows Southern California ICE protest turn violent amid nationwide uproar. Jan. 9, 2026. (OC Hawk)

Video shows Southern California ICE protest turn violent amid nationwide uproar. Jan. 9, 2026. (OC Hawk)

Video shows Southern California ICE protest turn violent amid nationwide uproar. Jan. 9, 2026. (OC Hawk)

Video shows Southern California ICE protest turn violent amid nationwide uproar. Jan. 9, 2026. (OC Hawk)

“From what I’ve heard the doctors say and everyone else, yes, I will be blind for the rest of my life,” he responded when asked about the injury. “They pulled a piece of plastic the size of a nickel out of my eye. They said I had shards of metal, glass and plastic all throughout my eye, behind my eye, in my skull. They also said I had a piece of shrapnel, metal, a few millimeters from my carotid artery. They said it was a miracle I survived because if it had gotten any closer and hit that, I would’ve died that night.”

In a statement to the Los Angeles Times, Department of Homeland Security Assistant Secretary Tricia McLaughlin said, “The mob of 60 rioters threw rocks, bottles and fireworks at law enforcement officers outside the building.”

A spokesperson for the Santa Ana Police Department, though, said the only violence they saw that night was protesters throwing orange cones in the direction of federal agents.

In a Jan. 13 DHS statement obtained by The Times, federal officials said, “This is absurd. DHS law enforcement took this rioter to the hospital for a cut and he was released that night. Make no mistake: Rioting and assaulting law enforcement is not only dangerous but a crime.”

In a text exchange with KTLA’s Mary Beth McDade, Rummler’s father, a conservative Republican, disputed DHS’s take on the incident, saying Kaden was not rioting, did not assault anyone and was not released that night.

“DHS are way off,” he added.

Civil Rights Attorney John Washington, who told KTLA that the entire incident is under investigation, said he can see no reason for the level of force that was used during the violent confrontation.

“I think it’s just a complete unjustifiable use of force and the force used, like you just heard about the injuries, was lethal force,” he said.

A GoFundMe has been organized to help Rummler with medical expenses.

KTLA reached out to DHS for comment prior to publication but has yet to receive a response. This article will be updated when officials provide a statement.

The complete interview with Kaden Rummler can be viewed here.