ICE raids second south Alabama school construction site, 11 arrested - Alabama Daily News Get the Daily News Digest in your inbox each morning. Sign Up Alabama Daily News Login Log Out Subscribe My Account Inside Alabama Politics New Member Profiles Commentary Podcast &#038; Videos Education Legislature 2026 Campaign 2026 Login Subscribe Inside Alabama Politics New Member Profiles Commentary Podcast &#038; Videos Education Legislature 2026 Campaign 2026 Search --> ICE raids second south Alabama school construction site, 11 arrested July 24, 2025 &bull; Education , News , By Trisha Powell Crain BIRMINGHAM, Ala. &#8211; Federal officials arrested 11 construction workers Wednesday morning at the site of the new Loxley Elementary School in Baldwin County, marking the second immigration enforcement action at a public school construction site in south Alabama in less than a month. The Gulf of America Homeland Security Task Force made the arrests, according to a social media post on the FBI &#8211; Mobile&#8217;s Facebook page . The elementary school is expected to be completed in fall 2026. Baldwin County Schools Superintendent Eddie Tyler said in a statement the district is cooperating with federal investigators. “Our contracts with our construction projects require compliance with federal law,” Tyler wrote. “At this time, we have no indication of any wrongdoing. We remain committed to transparency and accountability in all of our operations.” Sharpe, Inc. is the general contractor on the Loxley Elementary School project, according to school officials. A message left for Sharpe Wednesday afternoon was not returned. This is the second school construction site in south Alabama where ICE officials have made arrests in the past month. The first raid occurred on June 24, when federal officials arrested 36 people working at the Gulf Shores High School construction site. The FBI later confirmed that 20 of those arrested had a criminal history . The general contractor on the Gulf Shores project, Rabren General Contractors, later told 1819 News the company was sorry for what happened. &#8220;We have all of our subcontractors and trade partners sign immigration affidavits, but obviously, that is not enough to abide by all the laws of our great country. So, Rabren needs to do some things differently,&#8221; president and CEO Matt Rabren told the outlet in June. School officials say they rely on contractors and subcontractors to follow federal and state employment law when hiring. “Our superintendents are signing construction contracts, and we&#8217;re following state law and federal law,” School Superintendents of Alabama Executive Director Ryan Hollingsworth told Alabama Daily News. Hollingsworth said superintendents expect general contractors — or subcontractors they hire — to ensure compliance with federal employment law. State Sen. Chris Elliott, R-Josephine, said responsibility for compliance ultimately lies with the public entity. “After the recent high-profile ICE actions on public construction sites, and regardless of where your contract assigns responsibility for ensuring compliance with federal immigration requirements, if you’re a public entity, you need to make sure your site is in compliance from here on out,” Elliott said. “The first couple may have been honest mistakes, but that’s not going to be a successful message moving forward. We overwhelmingly elected President Trump and he’s serious about deporting illegal aliens.” &nbsp; --> Post navigation Previous Post NIL bill advances out of House committees Next Post Space Command poised to move to Huntsville after delegation talks with Trump Latest News House repeals law allowing Tuberville, senators to sue over phone searches 21h ago Democrats vow to oppose homeland security funds after Minnesota shooting as shutdown risk grows 21h ago Judge set to hear arguments on Minnesota&#8217;s immigration crackdown after fatal shootings 21h ago More than 11,400 flights canceled Sunday as massive winter storm sweeps across US; Cold, dry weather here 21h ago Op-Ed: AI is a Tool, Not a Solution 21h ago Capitol Journal &#8212; Jan. 23, 2026 1/25/26 Massive winter storm across the US brings ice, frigid temperatures and widespread power outages 1/25/26 Protesters demand immigration agents leave Minneapolis after man is shot and killed during crackdown 1/25/26 Wahl, Brooks and others shake-up GOP primaries on final day to qualify 1/23/26 CHOOSE Act no longer impacts athletic eligibility in private schools, AHSAA says 1/23/26 Get the Daily News Digest in your inbox each morning. Company This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Name (Required) First Last Email (Required) Get the Daily News Digest in your inbox each morning. URL This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Name (Required) First Last Email (Required) Alabama Daily News Location 1228 Magnolia Curve, Montgomery AL, 36106 Contact [email&#160;protected] Who we are Contact Login Copyright &copy; 2026 Alabama Daily News Web Development By Infomedia