Title: ICE detainee passes away at Pennsylvania's Moshannon Valley Processing Center
Published: 2025-08-06 00:00:00

PHILIPSBURG, Penn. — Chaofeng Ge, a 32-year-old citizen of China in ICE custody, was pronounced deceased by the Clearfield County coroner at approximately 6:03 a.m. on Aug. 5. The cause of death is under investigation.

Ge was detained at the Moshannon Valley Processing Center in Philipsburg. He had been in ICE custody for five days and was awaiting a hearing before the Department of Justice’s Executive Office for Immigration Review. MVPC staff discovered Ge hanging by the neck and unresponsive in the shower room of his detention pod at 5:21 a.m. They immediately lowered him to the ground, began CPR and contacted Phillipsburg Emergency Medical Services, the Pennsylvania State Police and the coroner’s office.

On Jan. 23, the Lower Paxton Township Police Department arrested Ge for criminal use of a communication facility, unlawful use of a computer and access device fraud. On Jan. 24, ICE Philadelphia’s Enforcement and Removal Operations York sub-office lodged an immigration detainer with the Dauphin County Prison.

Ge pleaded guilty to accessing a device issued to another who did not authorize use and conspiracy to commit the same on July 31. He was sentenced to six to 12 months for each count and granted immediate release to the ICE detainer. ERO York took Ge into ICE custody and transported him to the York ICE office for processing. He was subsequently transferred to the MVPC.

Consistent with ICE policy, ERO notified the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the Office of Inspector General and the ICE Office of Professional Responsibility via the Integrity Coordination Center. ERO provided notification of the death to the Chinese Embassy.

ICE makes official notifications to Congress, nongovernmental organization stakeholders, and the media upon an official report of a detained illegal alien’s death and posts a news release with relevant details on the ICE public website within two business days per agency policy. This information may be accessed in the ICE.gov Newsroom. Additionally, congressional requirements described in the DHS Appropriations Bill of 2018 require ICE to make public all reports regarding an in-custody death within 90 days.

These reports may be accessed on the Detainee Death Reporting page.

ICE remains committed to ensuring that all those in its custody reside in safe, secure, and humane environments. Comprehensive medical care is provided from the moment individuals arrive and throughout the entirety of their stay. All people in ICE custody receive medical, dental and mental health intake screening within 12 hours of arriving at each detention facility, a full health assessment within 14 days of entering ICE custody or arrival at a facility, access to medical appointments and 24-hour emergency care. At no time during detention is a detained illegal alien denied emergent care.