Family of man who died in ICE custody in central Pa. sues government | 90.5 WESA Search Query Show Search News Politics &amp; Government Arts &amp; Culture Health, Science &amp; Tech Development &amp; Transportation Education Courts &amp; Justice Economy &amp; Business Identity &amp; Community Environment &amp; Energy Sports National &amp; International Politics &amp; Government Arts &amp; Culture Health, Science &amp; Tech Development &amp; Transportation Education Courts &amp; Justice Economy &amp; Business Identity &amp; Community Environment &amp; Energy Sports National &amp; International Listen Radio Schedule Radio Programs Ways to Listen WESA Reports: King podcast Good Question! Allegheny Front JazzWorks Radio Schedule Radio Programs Ways to Listen WESA Reports: King podcast Good Question! Allegheny Front JazzWorks Newsletters About About Us Contact Us Newsletters/Inbox Edition Station News Community Calendar WESA Staff WESA Partnerships Employment DEI Efforts About Us Contact Us Newsletters/Inbox Edition Station News Community Calendar WESA Staff WESA Partnerships Employment DEI Efforts Support Become a Donor Sponsorship Media Partnership Donate A Vehicle More Ways to Support WESA Leadership Circle Federal Funding Response Become a Donor Sponsorship Media Partnership Donate A Vehicle More Ways to Support WESA Leadership Circle Federal Funding Response © 2026 90.5 WESA Menu Show Search Search Query Donate Play Live Radio Next Up: 0:00 0:00 0:00 0:00 Available On Air Stations On Air Now Playing WESA – Pittsburgh&#x27;s NPR News Station On Air Now Playing JazzWorks – Pittsburgh&#x27;s Best Jazz On Air Now Playing WYEP – Where The Music Comes First On Air Now Playing WYEP Valentine&#x27;s Pop-Up All Streams News Politics &amp; Government Arts &amp; Culture Health, Science &amp; Tech Development &amp; Transportation Education Courts &amp; Justice Economy &amp; Business Identity &amp; Community Environment &amp; Energy Sports National &amp; International Politics &amp; Government Arts &amp; Culture Health, Science &amp; Tech Development &amp; Transportation Education Courts &amp; Justice Economy &amp; Business Identity &amp; Community Environment &amp; Energy Sports National &amp; International Listen Radio Schedule Radio Programs Ways to Listen WESA Reports: King podcast Good Question! Allegheny Front JazzWorks Radio Schedule Radio Programs Ways to Listen WESA Reports: King podcast Good Question! Allegheny Front JazzWorks Newsletters About About Us Contact Us Newsletters/Inbox Edition Station News Community Calendar WESA Staff WESA Partnerships Employment DEI Efforts About Us Contact Us Newsletters/Inbox Edition Station News Community Calendar WESA Staff WESA Partnerships Employment DEI Efforts Support Become a Donor Sponsorship Media Partnership Donate A Vehicle More Ways to Support WESA Leadership Circle Federal Funding Response Become a Donor Sponsorship Media Partnership Donate A Vehicle More Ways to Support WESA Leadership Circle Federal Funding Response Politics &amp; Government Family of man who died in ICE custody in Clearfield County takes legal action WPSU | By Anne Danahy Published&nbsp;November 14, 2025 at 5:30 AM EST Facebook LinkedIn Email Photo provided Chaofeng Ge's family has filed a suit against the federal government to get more information about Ge's death in an ICE facility in Clearfield County on Aug. 5, 2025. The brother of the man who died while in ICE custody at a facility in Clearfield County on Aug. 5 has filed a lawsuit against the federal government, in an effort to get more information about his brother's death. Chaofeng Ge was found hanging by his neck in a shower stall at the Moshannon Valley Processing Center. The death was determined to be a suicide. GEO Group runs the facility as a detention center for ICE. Ge's brother, Yanfeng Ge said in the suit that GEO did not reach out to the family to explain what happened. And, he said, his brother was isolated because no one in the facility spoke Mandarin Chinese and staff did not try to communicate with him. The suit says Yanfeng Ge filed a Freedom of Information Act request in September, but it was ignored. "I am (devastated) by the loss of my brother and by the knowledge that he was suffering so greatly in that detention center," Ge said in a statement Wednesday, adding that he wants answers and accountability. The family's lawyer said in a statement that the "lack of transparency" about what's happening at ICE detention centers needs to stop. "People are dying and our government doesn't have the common decency to offer the family any explanation, it's appalling," said David B. Rankin, attorney for the family. According to an ICE spokesman, ICE does not comment on pending litigation. The suit was filed in the southern district of New York against ICE and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. It asks the court to order ICE and Homeland Security to comply with the the Freedom of Information Act and produce the records requested by Ge's family, or to justify the reason for withholding the records. Copyright 2025 WPSU Politics &amp; Government Facebook LinkedIn Email Anne Danahy Anne Danahy is a reporter at WPSU. She was a reporter for nearly 12 years at the Centre Daily Times in State College, Pennsylvania, where she earned a number of awards for her coverage of issues including the impact of natural gas development on communities. See stories by Anne Danahy Start your morning with today's news on Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania. Latest News From WESA After heavy snow storm, extreme cold settles on Pittsburgh region — and it&#x27;s here to stay This McKeesport clinic exclusively serves the uninsured. Demand continues to surge. The Nature Conservancy acquires 200+ acres in Western Pa. to help protect rare birds Gov. Shapiro accuses President Trump of attempting to “whitewash history” Pa. researchers hope to remove PFAS, microplastics with sustainable treatment method Have a tip for the WESA newsroom? Email news@wesa.fm . Politics &amp; Government Fetterman criticizes immigration agents after Minneapolis shooting, but won&#x27;t oppose funding Chris Potter Fetterman’s new statement is not likely to mollify critics, who say that, while he bills himself as a supporter of immigrants, he has been absent from their fight. Lunchtime protests are set to take place at Fetterman’s offices in Pittsburgh and four other Pennsylvania cities. Politics &amp; Government Pittsburgh declares state of emergency in wake of heavy snow and struggles with snowplow fleet Julia Maruca, Julia Zenkevich Pittsburgh Mayor Corey O’Connor declared a state of emergency Monday morning in response to the historic snowfall that blanketed the region over the weekend. Courts &amp; Justice After ICE agents kill U.S. citizen in Minneapolis, Shapiro, Pa. Dems decry &#x27;abuses of power&#x27; Phil Davis | WHYY Pennsylvania's governor said that U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement's "clear abuses of power are only creating danger in our communities." Load More Stay Connected instagram facebook © 2026 90.5 WESA ABOUT US 90.5 WESA Pittsburgh Community Broadcasting WESA Staff Board of Directors DEI Efforts CONTACT Contact Us Careers RESOURCES Reports &amp; Resources Public Files Privacy &amp; Terms of Use FCC Applications