Man detained by ICE found dead, hanging with hands and feet tied—attorney - Newsweek live updates Bovino Exits as Trump Shakes Up ICE Leadership in Minneapolis Nation News Politics Tech Fact Check Personal Finance Automotive Sports Better Workplaces World Russia-Ukraine Middle East China And Asia Better Planet All World News Lifestyle Family &amp; Parenting Entertainment Travel Pets Relationships Science Health Opinion My Turn All Opinion Rankings Health Finance Products Education Workplaces Corporate Responsibility All Rankings Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram YouTube TikTok Twitter/X Reddit Announcements Leadership Dev Pragad More Unconventional Events Podcasts Vantage Readers Choice Newsweek.AI Magazine Subscribe Sign In Nation News Politics Tech Fact Check Personal Finance Automotive Sports Better Workplaces World Russia-Ukraine Middle East China And Asia Better Planet All World News Lifestyle Family &amp; Parenting Entertainment Travel Pets Relationships Science Health Opinion My Turn All Opinion Rankings Health Finance Products Education Workplaces Corporate Responsibility All Rankings Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram YouTube TikTok Twitter/X Reddit Announcements Leadership Dev Pragad More Unconventional Events Podcasts Vantage Readers Choice Newsweek.AI Magazine News Immigration ICE Department of Homeland Security Pennsylvania News Article Man Detained by ICE Found Dead, Hanging With Hands and Feet Tied—Attorney Published Nov 18, 2025 at 04:04 PM EST updated Nov 20, 2025 at 07:16 AM EST By Dan Gooding Politics Reporter Share Newsweek is a Trust Project member Warning: This article contains descriptions of suicide. Please proceed with caution. A Chinese immigrant was found dead in U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) detention , with his hands and feet tied behind him, an attorney has alleged. Chaofeng Ge died four days after entering ICE custody in Pennsylvania on August 5, with an agency report stating he was found by agents with “a cloth ligature around his neck”. ESSENTIAL READING Uncommon Knowledge: Trump Changed America—Now Moderate America Is Changing Trump After an autopsy report, his family is calling for more answers from the Department of Homeland Security . “I am devasted by the loss of my brother and by the knowledge that he was suffering so greatly in that detention center,” Yanfeng Ge, the brother of Chaofeng, said in a statement shared with Newsweek . “He did not deserve to be treated that way. I want justice for my brother, answers as to how this could have happened, and accountability for those responsible for his death.” Why It Matters As detention numbers have spiked within ICE facilities under the Trump administration, deaths have also begun to rise . At least 15 immigrants died within ICE facilities , or while under their care, under this administration, compared to 12 for the entire fiscal year 2024. Advocacy groups and attorneys have repeatedly warned that ICE detention conditions are poor , but DHS has said otherwise. ... What To Know Ge, 32, arrived at the U.S.-Mexico border near Tecate, California, on November 22, 2023, and was arrested by the Border Patrol for unlawful entry. Officers released him into the U.S. with a Notice to Appear for a hearing at a later date. The records from ICE went quiet for over a year before agents encountered Ge in Lower Paxton Township, Pennsylvania, in January 2025. He was accused of accessing a device issued to another who did not authorize its use, conspiracy – accessing a device issued to another who did not authorize use, theft by deception—false impression, conspiracy—theft by deception, criminal use of a communication facility, and unlawful use of a computer—access to disrupt function. ESSENTIAL READING Conventional Wisdom: Saudi White House Visit Edition Ge, who lived in Queens, New York, was convicted of the first two of these charges by the Court of Common Pleas in Dauphin County, Pennsylvania, on July 31, and he was sentenced to six to 12 months with credit for time served, so he was released from local custody and ICE agents detained him. ICE is required to issue reports on all deaths within its custody, including Ge’s. The report states he was assessed with the help of a Mandarin interpreter on August 1, when he denied any past medical or mental health issues. Four days later, on August 5 at around 5:20 a.m., officers at the Moshannon Valley Processing Center (MVPC) in Philipsburg say they found him in a shower stall with the cloth around his neck. Despite getting him onto the ground and attempting lifesaving measures, including CPR, Ge was pronounced dead roughly 40 minutes later. For Ge’s family, this does not answer all their questions, and they have filed a lawsuit against the Department of Homeland Security in the Southern District of New York. An autopsy report seen by Newsweek showed Ge was found tied with a bedsheet, with linens around his wrists and ankles in what the report described as a "hog-tied" position. The medical examiner noted that there had been other reported incidents of people who had hung themselves having done something similar, and that there were no obvious defense wounds. These details were also laid out in the criminal complaint filed by the family’s attorney, David Rankin, a partner at Beldock Levine &amp; Hoffman LLP in New York City. The complaint alleges that ICE denied Ge the mental health care he needed and ignored requests for more details on the conditions at the MVPC. Newsweek asked DHS whether Ge had been tied up and whether it was cooperating with the lawsuit filed in New York. Assistant Secretary Tricia McLaughlin did not answer these questions, but repeated similar messaging on detention deaths: that ICE takes each one seriously and thoroughly investigates them all. What People Are Saying David B. Rankin, the family’s attorney, in a statement to Newsweek : “ It is truly mystifying how any detention facility can let someone leave their room, create three nooses and then hang themselves without anyone knowing. What’s worse is the lack of mental health care which could have prevented this tragedy. Mr. Ge’s death represents a totally failure on the part of the GeoGroup and the DHS.” DHS Assistant Secretary Tricia McLaughlin, in a statement to Newsweek : “Chaofeng Ge passed away at the Moshannon Valley Processing Center. All in-custody deaths are tragic, taken seriously, and are thoroughly investigated by law enforcement. ICE takes its commitment to promoting safe, secure, humane environments for those in our custody very seriously.” What’s Next The lawsuit is asking for a judge to force DHS and ICE to release the details on Ge’s case. If you or someone you know is considering suicide, please contact the 988 Suicide and Crisis Lifeline by dialing 988, text "988" to the Crisis Text Line at 741741 or go to 988lifeline.org. Request Reprint &amp; Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial &amp; AI Guidelines Add Newsweek as a preferred source on Google to see more of our trusted coverage when you search. Related Podcasts Top Stories News Bovino Exits as Trump Shakes Up ICE Leadership in Minneapolis: Live Updates 2 min read For Members News Uncommon Knowledge: Is ICE Really Targeting the Worst of the Worst? 6 min read World Russia Spells Out ‘Path to Peace’ for Zelensky 3 min read News Winter Storm Sparks Travel Chaos, Hundreds of Flight Cancellations 3 min read World ICE Agents Due at Winter Olympics ‘Not Welcome’: Milan Mayor 3 min read News Trump Shares Iran Update as US Sends ‘Armada’ to Region 4 min read Trending Social Security Seniors on Social Security Could Face $460 Monthly Cut to Benefits 4 min read Kristi Noem Kristi Noem Impeachment: 140 Lawmakers Sign On—Full List 9 min read Green Card Green Card Update: Applicants For 2027 Receive Boost 4 min read Alex Pretti Trump Admin Goes Against Kristi Noem’s Remarks About Alex Pretti 6 min read Alex Pretti Major US Companies Speak Out Against Alex Pretti Shooting: Full List 10 min read Opinion Opinion Let Venezuela be Free at Last | Opinion 5 min read Opinion Japan Wonders: Will the ‘Donroe Doctrine’ Include Us? | Opinion 5 min read Opinion It’s Time To Give Jews a Special Protected Minority Status | Opinion 5 min read Opinion LEGO Education: Child Agency in the Age of AI | Opinion 4 min read Opinion Not So Fast, Mark Carney | Opinion 6 min read sections Nation World Lifestyle Health Opinion Rankings company About Us Masthead Careers Diversity &amp; Inclusion Mission Statement Leadership editions U.S. Edition 日本 Polska România contact Advertise Corrections Announcements Press Center Contact Us terms of use Cookie Policy Copyright Privacy Policy Terms &amp; Conditions Terms of Sale Privacy Settings sections Nation World Lifestyle Health Opinion Rankings company About Us Masthead Careers Diversity &amp; Inclusion Mission Statement Leadership editions U.S. Edition 日本 Polska România contact Advertise Corrections Announcements Press Center Contact Us terms of use Cookie Policy Copyright Privacy Policy Terms &amp; Conditions Terms of Sale Privacy Settings © 2026 Newsweek Digital LLC