Title: Colombian national dies after being found unresponsive in ICE custody at Phelps County Jail
Published: 2025-04-10 00:00:00

CHICAGO – A Colombian national in the custody of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement passed away after being found unresponsive at the Phelps County Jail, Rolla, Missouri, April 8.

Brayan Rayo-Garzon entered the United States on Nov. 13, 2023, near San Ysidro, California without authorization from an immigration official. An immigration judge ordered Rayo removed to his home country June 12, 2024. He was previously arrested for shoplifting in 2024, and ICE arrested Rayo on March 25, after his arrest for credit card fraud by the St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department.

Consistent with ICE protocols, the appropriate components were notified about the death, including the Department of Homeland Security Office of Inspector General and the ICE Office of Professional Responsibility. Additionally, ICE notified the next of kin.

ICE makes official notifications to Congress, nongovernmental organization stakeholders, and the media upon an official report of a detained illegal alien’s death, and posts a news release with relevant details on the ICE public website within two business days per agency policy. This information may be accessed in the ICE.gov Newsroom. Additionally, congressional requirements described in the DHS Appropriations Bill of 2018 require ICE to make public all reports regarding an in-custody death within 90 days. These reports may be accessed on the Detainee Death Reporting page.

ICE remains committed to ensuring that all those in its custody reside in safe, secure and humane environments. Comprehensive medical care is provided from the moment individuals arrive and throughout the entirety of their stay. All people in ICE custody receive medical, dental and mental health intake screening within 12 hours of arriving at each detention facility, a full health assessment within 14 days of entering ICE custody or arrival at a facility, access to medical appointments and 24-hour emergency care. At no time during detention is a detained illegal alien denied emergent care.