New York officials among dozens arrested at anti-ICE demonstration - CBS New York Latest U.S. Winter Storm Minneapolis Shooting World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds New York | News Weather Voters Decide Sports Video New York Shows Your Home Team All News NY News Bronx News Brooklyn News Harlem News Long Island News Northern Suburbs Queens News NJ News CT News Investigations Politics Education Transportation Crime Housing Arts &amp; Entertainment Climate &amp; Environment Health &amp; Wellness Aging &amp; Caregiving First Alert Weather Radars &amp; Maps CBS2 Weather Map CBS2 Weather Watchers First Alert Weather 101 Share Photos &amp; Videos All Sports Giants Yankees Knicks Rangers Islanders Jets Mets Nets Devils CBS Sports HQ Odds Latest News CBS New York Investigates Book Club with Mary Calvi Class Act with Chris Wragge #BetterTogether Breaking The Stigma Furry Friend Finder Sandy The 5:33 | Legacy of the LIRR Massacre On The Dot with David Schechter: Wildfires &amp; Climate Change Climate Change: Protecting our Planet Station Info WCBS-TV WLNY-TV Contact Us Advertise Contests &amp; Promotions Galleries Links &amp; Numbers Download Our App Memorials Watch CBS News Local News New York officials among dozens arrested at anti-ICE demonstration By Katie Houlis , Katie Houlis Digital Producer, CBS New York Katie Houlis is a digital producer with the CBS New York web team. Read Full Bio Katie Houlis , Dick Brennan Dick Brennan Dick Brennan joined CBS News New York in 2012 as an anchor and reporter. Read Full Bio Dick Brennan Updated on: September 18, 2025 / 11:55 PM EDT / CBS New York Add CBS News on Google New York City and state officials were among dozens of people arrested at a demonstration opposing U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement in Downtown Manhattan on Thursday. It happened at&nbsp; 26 Federal Plaza , an ICE holding facility that has been a source of controversy over the past several months . New York City and state officials were among several people arrested at a demonstration opposing U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement in Downtown Manhattan on Sept. 18, 2025. Chopper 2 Protesters chanted during an outside sit-in in front of a driveway of the building, objecting to the treatment of detainees held there, before authorities moved in to make arrests. Another group also moved in on the 10th floor, demanding to see conditions there before they, too, were arrested. According to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, 71 people, including two state senators and nine state Assembly members, were arrested. DHS also said the building was later placed on lockdown due to a bomb threat. Chopper 2 was over the scene &nbsp;Thursday afternoon as protesters could be seen with their hands zip-tied behind their backs, waiting to board police buses. &nbsp; Lawmakers say they were trying to conduct oversight of holding facility Public Advocate Jumaane Williams said he was one of those taken into police custody. In a statement, Williams said he was participating in "a nonviolent civil disobedience to demand oversight of ICE's inhumane detention practices," adding, "Together with the dozens of New Yorkers getting arrested today, I call for all levels of government to do what they can to support our immigrant communities and vulnerable, marginalized populations." New York City Public Advocate Jumaane Williams and other city and state officials joined protesters for an anti-ICE demonstration at 26 Federal Plaza in Lower Manhattan on Sept. 18, 2025. CBS News New York Assemblywoman Jessica Gonz&aacute;lez-Rojas said she was also detained, alongside City Comptroller Brad Lander and City Councilmember Tiffany Cab&aacute;n. According to Gonz&aacute;lez-Rojas, the lawmakers were trying to conduct oversight of the ICE holding facility to make sure conditions were in compliance with a preliminary injunction ruling handed down by a judge Wednesday . "We put our bodies on the line for the lives and freedom of thousands of New Yorkers who have been illegally kidnapped and detained by ICE," she said in a statement, in part. The detained officials have since been released. "They were laughing on the other side. The cruelty on display in those courts and on the 10th floor is really clear. We made it clear we weren't leaving until they let us see and eventually they came and arrested us," Lander said. "Vulnerable communities are in danger. And, in history when we see this happening, what we know is that people who have a little bit more privilege have to do a little bit more to protect those who don't," Williams said, speaking outside NYPD headquarters. "We are at a time where people in our communities are being scapegoated in order to continue to shift the balance of power, and people are less safe because of it," Cab&aacute;n said. "What is happening is an imposing fear and literally kidnapping our neighbors, people who have nothing to do, very often, with anything to do with criminality," Williams said. DHS calls protest "a stunt" by politicians In a statement, DHS Assistant Secretary Tricia McLaughlin called the protest "a stunt in an attempt to get their 15 minutes of fame while endangering DHS personnel and detainees." She accused Lander and protesters of obstructing law enforcement and causing a scene. "The men and women of ICE put their lives on the line every day to arrest violent criminal illegal aliens to protect and defend the lives of American citizens. This type of rhetoric is contributing to the 1000% surge in assaults of ICE officers through this repeated vilification and demonization of ICE," McLaughlin said in a statement, in part. ICE claims federal elected officials don't have access to the 10th floor holding cells because they are temporary facilities, not detention centers. More from CBS News Gov. Kathy Hochul calls for removal of DHS Secretary Kristi Noem Philly protesters rally in support of Minnesota after another deadly shooting Law enforcement legal expert dives into Minneapolis ICE killings St. Paul mayor blasts DHS for mistaken identity arrest Georgia lawmakers react after Border Patrol agent kills man in Minneapolis In: U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement United States Department of Homeland Security New York City Jumaane Williams &copy; 2025 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved. Featured Local Savings Elected officials among dozens arrested at NYC anti-ICE demonstration Elected officials among dozens arrested at NYC anti-ICE demonstration 02:25 Elected officials among dozens arrested at NYC anti-ICE demonstration (02:25) Gov. Kathy Hochul calls for removal of DHS Secretary Kristi Noem Philly protesters rally in support of Minnesota after another deadly shooting Law enforcement legal expert dives into Minneapolis ICE killings St. Paul mayor blasts DHS for mistaken identity arrest Georgia lawmakers react after Border Patrol agent kills man in Minneapolis More protests in Chicago after federal agents shoot, kill Minneapolis resident Marin County protesters rally against ICE, Border Patrol after killing of Alex Pretti Peters, Slotkin both plan to vote against Homeland Security funding bill Featured Minneapolis Shooting Snowfall Totals Broncos vs. Patriots Seahawks vs. Rams Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram TikTok X CBS News New York Meet the Team WLNY-TV 55 Program Guide Contests &amp; Promotions Advertise With Us Sitemap Regulation Public File for WCBS-TV Public File for WLNY-TV Public Inspection File Help FCC Applications WCBS-TV EEO Report WLNY-TV EEO Report Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman &copy;2026 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue