Title: Anti-ICE protest in downtown Las Vegas turns into standoff with police
Published: 2025-06-12 00:00:00

A peaceful protest by hundreds of people in downtown Las Vegas on Wednesday night calling for an end to immigration enforcement raids escalated into confrontations with law enforcement.

Around 8:30 p.m., Metro Police declared the assembly unlawful, leading to a tense standoff with the crowd.

"We have declared an unlawful assembly at Las Vegas Boulevard and Clark due to protesters engaging in illegal activity," Metro posted on social media. "A dispersal order has been issued. Failure to leave can result in arrest or citation."

Police began arresting protesters while pushing the crowd along East Clark Avenue toward Las Vegas Boulevard South, in the area between the Lloyd D. George Courthouse and the local Immigration and Customs Enforcement office. Officers worked to confine demonstrators to a single block of East Clark, making additional arrests during the process.

Metro, as of 1 a.m. Thursday, hadn't released arrest totals or other enforcement details.

Officers put on gas masks just before 9:30 p.m., prompting protestors to increase the distance between them and the police. A small group of demonstrators knelt in the street.

Metro then fired projectiles and tear gas into the crowd, dispersing most demonstrators. Police used additional tear gas to break up remaining protesters several blocks away at East Bridger Avenue and South 6th Street, where a SWAT vehicle was positioned.

The protesters' actions were largely limited to verbal taunts and throwing water bottles at officers, according to the Sun's observations. One sparkler landed near both demonstrators and police.

"A lot of people came up front (and Metro) started shooting (projectiles)," protester Rolando Mendez Portilo said. "There wasn't really any provocation. There was no violence. We were inviting nothing."

A woman who wished to remain anonymous agreed that the demonstration was peaceful, saying she didn't know why tear gas was used.

Athar Haseebullah, executive director of the Nevada ACLU, wrote on social media that the organization had legal observers at the protest. Metro's dispersal order was "not audible to all" and the unlawful assembly declaration was made "without clarity of what unlawful activity existed," Haseebullah wrote.

"To be clear, we aren't protest coordinators," Haseebullah wrote on X. "But kettling protesters and then firing pepper balls at people and using tear gas is a (First Amendment) issue."

Michael Wood and his partner, Sophia Snow, were further back in the crowd when Metro started shooting projectiles and tear gas. Snow was hit in the head, Wood said. After the crowd had left, she was sitting on the ground nearby with bandages over her forehead. They recently lost their child and Snow's also been dealing with seizures, he said.

"It's not good," Wood said. Metro police were "not peaceful. You guys should (be) fired or get deported yourself because this is ridiculous. This is unnecessary."

Before tension grew between police and demonstrators, many said they were dismayed by what they were seeing in Los Angeles. President Donald Trump announced over the weekend that he was sending 2,000 members of the California National Guard to quell the city's own anti-ICE protests. He later deployed another 2,000 Guard troops and mobilized 700 Marines to assist the Guard.

Shaun Navarro, chair of the local chapter of Democratic Socialists of America, called the move a "show of force by a wannabe dictator."

"It's a disgraceful situation. If you want to talk about freedom, freedom is not using the National Guard against American citizens," Navarro said. "It's very inspiring to see — even with so much going on, with the very real danger — people are coming together peacefully."

The Las Vegas crowd was filled with protest signs decrying Trump's immigration policy and calling for an end to ICE, along with the flags of Mexico and other Central and South American countries. Of the American flags there, many were hung upside down, the mark of distress.

Ruben Beltran, a 67-year-old casino worker who immigrated to the United States from Mexico 40 years ago, was holding one of them.

While Beltran didn't vote for Trump in the last election, he did agree with him on his common refrain about deporting criminals. But that's not what he's seen since Trump retook the White House.

"We don't agree with this fascist government," Beltran said, adding that Trump was acting like Nazi leader Adolf Hitler. "I pay taxes. I help (the) U.S. to be great. ... We come to work. We don't come here as terrorists. Maybe other people came to do bad things, but Mexicans come to work."

Comparisons between Trump and Hitler were everywhere at the protest, with people displaying seemingly AI-generated images of the two kissing. Another sign compared ICE to the Nazi secret police.

By the end of the protest, all that remained were empty water bottles and scattered graffiti critical of ICE.

"We pay them," Portillo said of Metro. "They shouldn't be doing this. This is wrong."