ICE to use Buckley Space Force Base to process detained immigrants Skip to content All Sections Subscribe Now 28&deg;F Tuesday, January 27th 2026 Digital Replica Edition Home Page News Latest Headlines Colorado News Politics Crime and Public Safety Courts National News World News Education Health Environment Transportation Housing News Obituaries Photos Video Your Hub Weather Sports Sports Sports Columnists Denver Broncos Colorado Rockies Denver Nuggets Colorado Avalanche Colorado Rapids Olympics College Sports Preps Betting Golf Boxing / MMA Sports on TV/Radio Sports Podcasts Olympics Business Business Real Estate Airlines Economy Energy Retail Technology Best Reviews The Know The Know Food and Drink Art Culture Movies TV &amp; Streaming Music Theater Travel Family Friendly Bars Beer Outdoors Outdoors Hiking Fall Colors Cycling Fitness Running Camping Fishing Hunting Water Sports Skiing Snowboarding Winter Sports Opinion Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Cartoons Endorsements Obituaries Obituaries News Obituaries Place an Obituary Things To Do Things To Do Event Calendar Television Listings Comics Games Horoscopes Advice Home &amp; Garden Free and Cheap Cannabis Recipes Denver Post Store Classifieds Classifieds Automotive Homes Jobs Branded Content Paid Content by Brandpoint Subscribe Log In Logout Sign up for Newsletters and Alerts Sign Up Colorado News | ICE to use Aurora&#8217;s Buckley Space Force Base to&#8230; Share this: Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Subscribe Log In Account Settings Contact Us Log Out Spoof a user Sign up for Newsletters and Alerts Sign Up Subscribe Log In Search 28&deg;F Tuesday, January 27th 2026 Digital Replica Edition Colorado News Latest Headlines Colorado Politics Crime Nation World Education Health Environment Transportation Housing News Obituaries Trending: Snow totals ❄️ Broncos’ AFC title game mistakes News Colorado News News News Based on facts, either observed and verified directly by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. ICE to use Aurora&#8217;s Buckley Space Force Base to process, house detained immigrants Military officials opened up the base to use by ICE this week Share this: Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Signs greet personnel at the south entrance to Buckley Space Force Base in Aurora on Friday, July 30, 2021. (Photo by Eric Lutzens/The Denver Post) By Lauren Penington | lpenington@denverpost.com and Megan Ulu-Lani Boyanton | The Denver Post PUBLISHED: January 29, 2025 at 8:34 AM MST | UPDATED: January 29, 2025 at 6:52 PM MST Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... Military officials have opened Buckley Space Force Base in Aurora to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents to process and temporarily house detained immigrants. U.S. Northern Command opened the base to ICE on Monday at the request of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security , according to an emailed statement from military officials. ICE set up a &#8220;temporary operations center, staging area and a temporary holding location for the receiving, holding and processing&#8221; of detainees, military officials said in the statement. U.S. Rep. Jason Crow, a Democrat whose congressional district includes Aurora, said Wednesday he was &#8220;deeply concerned&#8221; about Buckley being used for mass-deportation efforts, adding that it &#8220;dishonors the service of our troops.&#8221; “Let me be clear: If someone, regardless of immigration status, is committing violent crimes, they have no place in our communities,&#8221; Crow said in an emailed statement. “However, the president’s mass deportations are threatening to go after our neighbors, family members, business owners and friends in order to create a narrative that most immigrants are violent criminals. This is simply not true.&#8221; Crow said Aurora and the military can expect his &#8220;vigorous oversight&#8221; and that he is prepared to oppose the decision in Congress. The news comes after national media reported ICE raids could start in Aurora as early as Thursday and federal officials said more than 40 undocumented immigrants were arrested in an Adams County raid over the weekend. But on Wednesday, NBC News reported , based on unnamed sources, that ICE had postponed its Thursday plans in Aurora because of publicity this week. For now, Buckley will be staffed by ICE officials, federal agents and analysts, according to Northern Command&#8217;s statement. Military personnel will not be involved in any ICE raids. ICE also uses a detention center in Aurora that is operated by private prison company the GEO Group under a federal contract. That facility can house more than 1,500 people . Related Articles Colorado ICE raids set to begin in Aurora on Thursday have been postponed, national report says Trump administration to investigate DPS for turning girls restroom into an all-gender bathroom Trump&#8217;s now-blocked federal spending freeze sends Colorado officials scrambling, with billions at stake Suspected Tren de Aragua gang member seen in viral Aurora video arrested in New York The move to use Buckley is receiving pushback from the Colorado Rapid Response Network, an organization that reports ICE activity, and other immigrant-rights groups. &#8220;The Administration’s announcement it will utilize Buckley Airforce Base is an affront to our constitution and an insult to the commitment service members have made to protect it,&#8221; CRRN wrote in a Wednesday statement. The organization said that, over the last week, federal immigration officials were seen on patrol in Colorado Springs, Pueblo and Larimer County, with several residents detained in Pueblo, Larimer and La Plata counties. It also cited reports of recent enforcement activity in Brighton. &#8220;Our state is safest when all members of the community can participate and access the resources they need for their families, when local governments do not engage in immigration policy enforcement,&#8221; said the Colorado Immigrant Rights Coalition&#8217;s Gladis Ibarra, &#8220;and that&#8217;s what our policies and laws ensure.&#8221; Get more Colorado news by signing up for our daily Your Morning Dozen email newsletter. Share this: Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Policies Report an Error Contact Us Submit a News Tip RevContent Feed Most Popular Most Popular Denver metro school delays and closures for Jan. 26, 2026 Denver metro school delays and closures for Jan. 26, 2026 Rescue helicopters sent twice to evacuate 4 frostbitten skiers from Colorado mountains Rescue helicopters sent twice to evacuate 4 frostbitten skiers from Colorado mountains Renck: Broncos&#8217; Sean Payton puts blame where it belongs — on himself Renck: Broncos&#039; Sean Payton puts blame where it belongs — on himself Keeler: If Bo Nix plays in AFC Championship, Broncos don&#8217;t just beat Patriots — they destroy them Keeler: If Bo Nix plays in AFC Championship, Broncos don&#039;t just beat Patriots — they destroy them Parker Gabriel&#8217;s 7 Thoughts: Weeklong Sean Payton masterclass followed by Broncos&#8217; AFC title game mistakes will sting forever Parker Gabriel&#039;s 7 Thoughts: Weeklong Sean Payton masterclass followed by Broncos&#039; AFC title game mistakes will sting forever Colorado snow totals for Jan. 25, 2026 Colorado snow totals for Jan. 25, 2026 Colorado needs a graduated income tax because we can’t rely on Washington anymore (Opinion) Colorado needs a graduated income tax because we can’t rely on Washington anymore (Opinion) Should Nuggets take extra precautions with Nikola Jokic after what happened to Aaron Gordon? Should Nuggets take extra precautions with Nikola Jokic after what happened to Aaron Gordon? Asking Eric: Wife wants out of marriage, but husband is sick Asking Eric: Wife wants out of marriage, but husband is sick Keeler: Broncos should spend Russell Wilson money on getting Bo Nix receivers without butterfingers Keeler: Broncos should spend Russell Wilson money on getting Bo Nix receivers without butterfingers More in Colorado News Arapahoe County teen found Man shot by Edgewater police in Wheat Ridge has died Are stadium food and beer prices too high? Colorado lawmakers unveil bills targeting costs. U.S. negotiating for release of Colorado man detained by Taliban for past year 2025 January 29 Subscribe News Alerts Submit a News Tip Member Services Become a Member Digital Subscription FAQ Place a Hold Digital Replica Edition Sitemap Classifieds Autos Real Estate Jobs Contact Us Careers Denver Post Store Place an Obituary Advertise With Us Network Advertising Privacy Policy Accessibility Today’s Front Page Back Issues Archives Mobile Apps Subscribe Now Terms of Use Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences California Notice at Collection Notice of Financial Incentive Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information Arbitration Site Map Ethics Policy Powered by WordPress.com VIP Copyright &copy; 2026 MediaNews Group Close