Man hurt after ICE-involved shooting during traffic stop on I-17 in Phoenix
Skip to content
PHOENIX (AZFamily)
— A man is hospitalized after a shooting involving a U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officer during a traffic stop on a Phoenix freeway early Wednesday morning.
According to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), ICE officers stopped an SUV on
Interstate 17 northbound near Dove Valley Road
around 4 a.m. The driver initially stopped, DHS says, but began to drive away as federal officers approached.
DHS says that as the SUV “abruptly began speeding away,” an officer in the path of the vehicle feared for his life and fired his weapon twice.
The suspect, identified as Jose Garcia-Sorto of Honduras, was injured and taken to a hospital. It’s unclear if he was hit by gunfire or injured in another way, and his current condition is unknown. DHS says the man is in the U.S. illegally.
ICE officers shot Jose Garcia Sorto, a Honduran national, during an enforcement stop. The suspect was hospitalized and the FBI is investigating the shooting.
The ICE officer involved in the shooting was also transported for evaluation.
The FBI will investigate the shooting and has opened an Assault on a Federal Officer (AFO) case. The results of the investigation will then be turned over to the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Arizona, where federal prosecutors will determine if and what charges will be filed.
Arizona Department of Public Safety (DPS) troopers assisted with traffic control while the northbound I-17 off-ramp at Dove Valley Road was closed, but traffic is moving again in the area.
A heavy law enforcement presence was visible on the freeway early Wednesday morning. Damage was seen to the driver’s side window of the SUV.
Damage was seen to the driver’s side window of the SUV.
(Arizona's Family)
DHS released the following statement late Wednesday morning:
“These are the consequences of conduct and rhetoric by dishonest politicians who spew misinformation and activists who urge illegal aliens to resist arrest. Resisting arrest puts the safety of illegal aliens, law enforcement, and the public at risk. Our law enforcement officers are facing a more than 1000% increase in assaults against them including vehicle rammings by illegal aliens. We are once again calling on sanctuary politicians, agitators, and the media to turn the temperature down and stop calling for violence and resistance against ICE law enforcement.”
This is the 75th shooting involving law enforcement in Arizona so far this year, according to Arizona’s Family records. This was also the second shooting involving authorities on Wednesday. In Mesa,
an officer was hurt
and a suspect was killed during a standoff.
See a spelling or grammatical error in our story?
Please click here to report it
.
Do you have a photo or video of a breaking news story? Send
it to us here
with a brief description.
Copyright 2025 KTVK/KPHO. All rights reserved.
Most Read
Homeland Security searches 15 Phoenix‑area locations tied to Zipps chain
Tracking rain, cooler temperatures heading into weekend; First Alert Days declared
Man shot, killed after confronting line-cutter at Phoenix QuikTrip, PD says
Stuck semi forced 2-day closure on Arizona’s historic Apache Trail highway
Police ID man, woman who died after apparent murder-suicide in Gilbert
Phoenix influencer missing in Mexico after apparent kidnapping
3 killed in crash on I-10 in western Arizona
Family hospitalized as fire rips through Mesa condo complex
Latest News
Raids at Zipps locations spark outrage, calls for ICE to leave Arizona
Arizona parents sue child care provider over alleged abuse
Man accused of boarding flight in Phoenix with invalid ticket, refused to leave
Bicyclist killed, pedestrian injured during pursuit that led to trooper-involved shooting in Tucson
Homeland Security searches 15 Phoenix‑area locations tied to Zipps chain
1 critically hurt after shooting involving Border Patrol in southern Arizona
How to make the most of January’s third paycheck
Mesa man gets life for killing co-worker over suspected workplace romance