Phoenix ICE agent shoots at man during interstate traffic stop Skip to content advertisement facebook instagram x tiktok bsky threads Support Us User Menu Sign Up/Sign In Contribute Contact Search Close Search Search Search News Arizona Watchdog Project Business Courts Crime &amp; Police Education Environment Health Immigration Politics &amp; Government Sports Technology Transportation Weather Cannabis Opinion Community Voice Editorial Voice Reader Response Food &amp; Drink Bars &amp; Breweries Openings &#038; Closings Restaurants Shops &amp; Markets Top 100 Bars Top 100 Restaurants Arts &amp; Culture Books Film, TV &amp; Streaming Outdoors &amp; Rec Performing Arts Sex &#038; Dating Travel Valley Life Visual Arts Music Concert Calendar Concert Previews Concert Reviews Critic&#8217;s Notebook Features Local Music Things To Do Calendar Concert Calendar Best of Phoenix Out now: Best of Phoenix 2025! Cannabis Food &#038; Drink Fun &#038; Games Goods &#038; Services La Vida Megalopolitan Life Nightlife Readers&#8217; Choice Newsletters More About Us Advertise With Us Contact Us Flipbook Archive Membership Our Staff Promotions &#038; Free Stuff Tell Your Story-Sponsored Protestors confront ICE agents raiding Zipps restaurants around the Valley Close Menu Search Search News Arizona Watchdog Project Business Courts Crime &amp; Police Education Environment Health Immigration Politics &amp; Government Sports Technology Transportation Weather Cannabis Opinion Community Voice Editorial Voice Reader Response Food &amp; Drink Bars &amp; Breweries Openings &#038; Closings Restaurants Shops &amp; Markets Top 100 Bars Top 100 Restaurants Arts &amp; Culture Books Film, TV &amp; Streaming Outdoors &amp; Rec Performing Arts Sex &#038; Dating Travel Valley Life Visual Arts Music Concert Calendar Concert Previews Concert Reviews Critic&#8217;s Notebook Features Local Music Things To Do Calendar Concert Calendar Best of Phoenix Out now: Best of Phoenix 2025! Cannabis Food &#038; Drink Fun &#038; Games Goods &#038; Services La Vida Megalopolitan Life Nightlife Readers&#8217; Choice Newsletters More About Us Advertise With Us Contact Us Flipbook Archive Membership Our Staff Promotions &#038; Free Stuff Tell Your Story-Sponsored facebook instagram x tiktok bsky threads Crime &amp; Police An ICE agent shot at a man during a traffic stop on Interstate 17 The man, a Honduran immigrant, is hurt but reportedly in stable condition. ICE claims the agent feared for his life. By Morgan Fischer October 29, 2025 Immigration and Customs Enforcement is a federal law enforcement agency aimed at preventing cross-border crime and illegal immigration. Lawrey /Getty Images Share this: Tags: Immigration Audio By Carbonatix Hours before the sun rose over the Valley on Wednesday morning, an Immigration and Customs Enforcement agent shot at a driver during a traffic stop along Interstate 17 in north Phoenix, just south of New River. The driver is reportedly in stable condition. According to authorities, federal agents initiated a traffic stop of Jose Garcia-Sorto, the car’s driver, at around 4 a.m. Garcia-Sorto initially stopped his car but began to pull away as officers approached, according to a statement from ICE provided to Phoenix New Times. It’s unclear why Garcia-Sorto was pulled over, but ICE says he is an undocumented immigrant from Honduras.&nbsp; ICE claims that as Garcia-Sorto began to speed away, an ICE agent was in his path. The agent — whom ICE has not identified — “fear(ed) for his life” and “defensively discharged his service weapon two times, striking Garcia-Sorto’s vehicle,” according to ICE’s statement. The statement blamed their incident on “dishonest politicians” and “activists who urge illegal aliens to resist arrest.” Photos from the scene show damage to the driver’s side window of Garcia-Sorto’s car but none to the windshield, as would be expected if Garcia-Sorto was driving directly at the ICE agent who fired. It&#8217;s unclear if there was other damage to the vehicle. ICE did not answer a question from New Times about whether the damage to the car’s window was from a bullet or from something else. Editor&#039;s Picks ICE rams Avondale man’s truck, arrests him after hours-long standoff Trump is using a Mesa airport to deport people to Africa He’s Tucson’s ‘mushroom man.’ The feds may deport him over paperwork Garcia-Sorto was taken to the hospital for “treatment of a wound,” ICE said. The agent who shot him was also taken to the hospital for evaluation.&nbsp; The FBI and Arizona Department of Public Safety were also on the scene, but not involved with the traffic stop. Around 5:30 a.m., DPS closed off exit ramps around the area — causing major traffic backups — as the FBI began an investigation into a possible assault on a federal officer, according to DPS and FBI statements to New Times. Following the investigation, the results will be turned over to the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Arizona for a charging decision.&nbsp; The U.S. Attorney’s Office told New Times that it is unable to respond to media requests because of the government shutdown. New Times has been unable to confirm or refute ICE’s version of events, though it should be noted that the agency has maintained a very loose relationship with the truth since President Donald Trump returned to the White House in January. ICE has repeated unverifiable claims about supposed assaults on agents — claiming in its statement to New Times that they are up 1,000% — and has been caught on multiple occasions distorting the facts to serve their preferred narrative. Related Feds raid Zipps locations across Valley, draw loud protests advertisement advertisement Just last Thursday, federal agents arrested an undocumented man in Avondale who they claim rammed an ICE agent’s vehicle. However, video captured by a neighbor’s doorbell camera showed a different story , suggesting that it was the ICE agent who rammed the man instead. It is not clear if the man in that case, Willian Castillo-Hernandez, has been charged by the U.S. Attorney’s Office in the incident. People First Project founder Clarissa Vela, who responded to the scene of the Avondale arrest last week, is similarly suspicious of ICE’s explanation of Garcia-Sorto’s arrest. “Something doesn’t smell right here,” she said in a text to New Times. Another community group, Poder in Action, said it will hold a vigil for Garcia-Sorto outside the Phoenix ICE field office, located at 2035 North Central Avenue, at 6 p.m. Wednesday night. Related Video: Phoenix protesters, agents clash outside of ICE field office advertisement advertisement GET MORE COVERAGE LIKE THIS Sign up for the News newsletter to get the latest stories delivered to your inbox Email * SIGN UP Thanks for Joining! Here is another newsletter you might like: This Week&#8217;s Top Stories SUBSCRIBE NO THANKS THANK YOU! You&#039;re all set. CLOSE Morgan Fischer joined Phoenix New Times as a staff writer in July 2024, covering all things Phoenix and Arizona news. Before joining New Times, Morgan has worked as a national politics intern at The Arizona Republic and as a reporter for News21, among other positions. She holds degrees in journalism and mass communication and political science from Arizona State University, where she also attended Barrett, The Honors College. News Editor Zach Buchanan If you value independent journalism, please consider making a contribution to support our continued coverage of essential stories and to investigate issues that matter. Support Today Loading latest posts... Loading trending posts... View This Week's Print Issue Editorial News Food &amp; Drink Arts &amp; Culture Music Things To Do Newsletters Marketing Advertise With Us Classifieds Promotions &#038; Free Stuff Privacy Policy Terms of Use More About Us Careers Contact US Flipbook Archive Staff Membership Voice Media Group Dallas Observer Denver Westword Miami New Times New Times Broward-Palm Beach V Digital Services facebook instagram x tiktok bsky threads Use of this website constitutes acceptance of our terms of use , our cookies policy , and our privacy policy . View our accessibility policy and AI policy . The Phoenix New Times may earn a portion of sales from products &amp; services purchased through links on our site from our affiliate partners. ©2026 Phoenix New Times, LLC. All rights reserved. Do Not Sell or Share My Information × Privacy Policy Stay in the Know Sign up for the latest news, free stuff and more! Things to Do Insiders Food Alerts News Join Today No Thanks Email Zip Code First Name Last Name Back Submit I agree to the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy Welcome! You are now a Phoenix New Times Insider, thank you! Close