Man hurt after ICE-involved shooting during traffic stop on I-17 in Phoenix Skip to content Your Life Arizona Silver Apple Surprise Squad Field Trip Friday Newcomers Guide Arizona News Watch Live Weather Podcasts Latest Videos On Your Side News Tips Seen On TV Share Videos Home Watch Live Mobile &amp; Smart TV Apps Seen on TV Share Your Videos &amp; Photos Arizona News Phoenix News East Valley News West Valley News Northern Arizona News Yuma News True Crime Arizona Arizona Wildfires Health News Education US &amp; World Arizona Housing and Real Estate Adoptable Pets Pets &amp; Animals Politics Politics Unplugged National Politics Immigration Weather Weather Cams Weather Maps Weather News Weather App Alerts Rainfall Totals Science and Climate Air Quality Monsoon Drought Extreme Heat Radar Podcasts Sonoran Sky Beyond the Next Chapter Here Before, Here Now Arizona&#x27;s Family Investigates Jaime&#x27;s Local Love UnResolved Finding Robert Fisher On Your Side Politics Unplugged True Crime Arizona Podcast Lori Vallow The Extra Point Speak of the Devils Investigations Contact Arizona&#x27;s Family Investigates Dirty Dining On Your Side Traffic Gas Prices Sports NCAA Tournament WM Phoenix Open Arizona Diamondbacks Arizona Cardinals Phoenix Suns Phoenix Mercury Phoenix Rising Arizona State Sports Network High School Sports Grand Canyon Good Morning Arizona Happy Hour Spots Jaime&#x27;s Local Love Something Good Field Trip Friday Bands Recipes Your Life Arizona Entertainment Original with Yetta Arizona Highways TV Movie Reviews Travel Taste of Arizona Community Route 66 St. Jude Children&#x27;s Research Hospital Surprise Squad Silver Apple Something Good In the Community with Susan Casper Finding Forever Community Calendar Memorials Request an Emcee About Us Submit Photos and Videos Newsletter Meet the Team Contact Us Careers Request an Emcee Closed Captioning/Audio Description FCC Public Inspection File Programming Schedule Closed Captioning/Audio Description Arizona’s Family Sports Contests NextGen TV Zeam - News Streams Circle Country Gray DC Bureau PowerNation InvestigateTV Watching Your Wallet Digital Marketing Gray AI Policy Man hurt after ICE-involved shooting during traffic stop on I-17 in Phoenix DHS says as the man's SUV “abruptly began speeding away,” an ICE officer in the path of the vehicle feared for his life and fired his weapon twice. By Mitchell Koch , David Caltabiano and Ben Bradley Published : Oct. 29, 2025 at 5:06 AM MST | Updated : Oct. 29, 2025 at 12:20 PM MST Email This Link Share on Facebook Share on X (formerly Twitter) Share on Pinterest Share on LinkedIn PHOENIX (AZFamily) — A man is hospitalized after a shooting involving a U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officer during a traffic stop on a Phoenix freeway early Wednesday morning. According to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), ICE officers stopped an SUV on Interstate 17 northbound near Dove Valley Road around 4 a.m. The driver initially stopped, DHS says, but began to drive away as federal officers approached. DHS says that as the SUV “abruptly began speeding away,” an officer in the path of the vehicle feared for his life and fired his weapon twice. The suspect, identified as Jose Garcia-Sorto of Honduras, was injured and taken to a hospital. It’s unclear if he was hit by gunfire or injured in another way, and his current condition is unknown. DHS says the man is in the U.S. illegally. ICE officers shot Jose Garcia Sorto, a Honduran national, during an enforcement stop. The suspect was hospitalized and the FBI is investigating the shooting. The ICE officer involved in the shooting was also transported for evaluation. The FBI will investigate the shooting and has opened an Assault on a Federal Officer (AFO) case. The results of the investigation will then be turned over to the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Arizona, where federal prosecutors will determine if and what charges will be filed. Arizona Department of Public Safety (DPS) troopers assisted with traffic control while the northbound I-17 off-ramp at Dove Valley Road was closed, but traffic is moving again in the area. A heavy law enforcement presence was visible on the freeway early Wednesday morning. Damage was seen to the driver’s side window of the SUV. Damage was seen to the driver’s side window of the SUV. (Arizona&#x27;s Family) DHS released the following statement late Wednesday morning: “These are the consequences of conduct and rhetoric by dishonest politicians who spew misinformation and activists who urge illegal aliens to resist arrest. Resisting arrest puts the safety of illegal aliens, law enforcement, and the public at risk. Our law enforcement officers are facing a more than 1000% increase in assaults against them including vehicle rammings by illegal aliens. We are once again calling on sanctuary politicians, agitators, and the media to turn the temperature down and stop calling for violence and resistance against ICE law enforcement.” This is the 75th shooting involving law enforcement in Arizona so far this year, according to Arizona’s Family records. This was also the second shooting involving authorities on Wednesday. In Mesa, an officer was hurt and a suspect was killed during a standoff. See a spelling or grammatical error in our story? Please click here to report it . Do you have a photo or video of a breaking news story? Send it to us here with a brief description. Copyright 2025 KTVK/KPHO. All rights reserved. Most Read Homeland Security searches 15 Phoenix‑area locations tied to Zipps chain Tracking rain, cooler temperatures heading into weekend; First Alert Days declared Man shot, killed after confronting line-cutter at Phoenix QuikTrip, PD says Stuck semi forced 2-day closure on Arizona’s historic Apache Trail highway Police ID man, woman who died after apparent murder-suicide in Gilbert Phoenix influencer missing in Mexico after apparent kidnapping 3 killed in crash on I-10 in western Arizona Family hospitalized as fire rips through Mesa condo complex Latest News Submit your entry for ADOT’s annual name-a-snowplow contest now ADOT inviting Arizonans to participate in name-a-snowplow contest How to put extra January paycheck to good use Volunteers conducting annual homeless count across Maricopa County Volunteers count homeless numbers in Phoenix area Trooper-involved shooting shuts down Speedway at Interstate 10 in Tucson What happened as HSI executed warrants at Zipps Sports Grill locations 1 dead after Phoenix officer shoots into home with reported active shooter Arizona News Advertise With Us About Us Contact Us Weather Programming Schedule Meet the Team Careers Arizona&#x27;s Family 5555 N. 7th Ave Phoenix, AZ 85013 (602) 207-3333 KPHO Public Inspection File KPHO EEO Report KTVK Public Inspection File KTVK EEO Report FCC Applications programming@azfamily.com | 602-207-3333 Closed Captioning/Audio Description Terms of Service Privacy Policy Advertising DO NOT SELL MY PERSONAL INFORMATION CALIFORNIA PRIVACY NOTICE Digital Marketing Click here to learn more about our approach to artificial intelligence. A Gray Local Media Station © 2002-2026