Any Lucia Lopez Belloza: A college freshman deported while flying home for Thanksgiving is fighting to return. Here’s what we know about her case | CNN Ad Feedback CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I&#x27;ve seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much appreciated. Close Close icon US Crime + Justice More Crime + Justice Watch Listen Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Listen Watch Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español Crime + Justice Follow CNN US Crime + Justice World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Politics Trump Facts First CNN Polls 2026 Elections Calendar Redistricting Tracker Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear &amp; Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships CNN Underscored Electronics Fashion Beauty Health &amp; Fitness Home Reviews Deals Gifts Travel Outdoors Pets Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food &amp; Drink Stay Videos Sports Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Winter Olympics 2026 Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Watch Featured Shows &amp; Films Network TV Clips CNN Headlines CNN Shorts Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Photo Shuffle Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Subscribe Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN US 4 min read A college freshman deported while flying home for Thanksgiving is fighting to return. Here’s what we know about her case By Hanna Park Updated Dec 2, 2025, 5:28 PM ET Published Dec 1, 2025, 6:27 AM ET Updated Dec 2, 2025, 5:28 PM ET PUBLISHED Dec 1, 2025, 6:27 AM ET In this undated photo provided by her attorney, Todd Pomerleau, Any Lucia Lopez Belloza celebrates her high school graduation in Texas. AP Immigration See all topics Facebook Tweet Email Link Link Copied! Follow Any Lucia Lopez Belloza arrived at the airport in Boston excited to embark on a surprise trip home to spend Thanksgiving with her family in Texas. The 19‑year‑old freshman at Babson College was nearing the end of her first semester studying business – a major she hoped would help her father open his own tailor shop one day. But instead of getting to hug her parents and two little sisters and tell them how college was going, Lopez Belloza was arrested by federal immigration officials moments before getting on her flight on November 20. She was told there was a problem with her boarding pass, and on her way to customer service she was “surrounded, (placed) in handcuffs, and dragged out of the airport,” her attorney, Todd Pomerleau, told CNN. In the roughly 48 hours after, Lopez Belloza was sent to Texas and then Honduras, the country where she was born but had not seen since she was 7 years old, when her parents brought her to the United States to seek asylum. Lopez Belloza was deported even after a federal judge issued an order barring the government from removing her from the US or transferring her outside of Massachusetts, according to her attorney and federal court documents. In an email to CNN, the Department of Homeland Security said Lopez Belloza entered the country in 2014, an immigration judge ordered her removal in 2015, but she “illegally stayed in the country since.” Related article Military-style Humvees are parked along the border wall in Brownsville, Texas, where Britania Uriostegui Rios was deported to Mexico. Michael Gonzalez/Getty Images Trump administration ‘inadvertently’ deported transgender woman to Mexico despite judge’s concern she may face torture there 4 min read Pomerleau told CNN Lopez Belloza was never shown a warrant, a removal order or given any explanation for why she had been detained. “I still am not convinced that she ever had an order removal. … She wasn’t shown any proof,” he said. Pomerleau said the only records he’s found in government databases indicate her case was closed in 2017. The student’s father, Francis, told the Austin American-Statesman his family was denied asylum, but they had been assured by the judge they did not have deportation orders. The outlet identified him only by his first name due to his immigration status, it said. After her arrest, Lopez Belloza was taken to US Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s regional headquarters in Burlington, Massachusetts, according to Pomerleau. From the field office, she was transferred to a military base in Massachusetts and then flown to Texas, where she spent the night in a detention facility before being deported to Honduras the following afternoon. “She had chains around her ankles. Handcuffs on her wrists,” Pomerleau told CNN. “Put on a plane and deported to a country she hadn’t been at in like 12 years. It’s beyond the pale.” In response to CNN’s questions about the attorney’s allegations, DHS Assistant Secretary Tricia McLaughlin said in a statement Lopez Belloza “received full due process and was removed to Honduras.” Passengers stop to look at the arrivals and departures board at Logan Airport, on November 11. Jessica Rinaldi/Boston Globe/Getty Images A college dream in limbo Lopez Belloza – who spent most of her life in Texas, where her father is raising her two younger sisters, ages 2 and 5 – decided to enroll at Babson after visiting colleges across the country. She had worked hard throughout high school and received a scholarship to study in Massachusetts, her lawyer said. “She wanted to study business and help her dad create his own business one day, a tailoring shop,” Pomerleau said. “He hand-made suits for her so she could wear them to interviews and go to … internships, things like that.” A spokesperson for Babson College directed CNN to a couple of statements sent by the school’s leadership , in which they shared that a student was detained by immigration authorities while traveling home for the Thanksgiving holiday and indicated the school won’t be commenting further. “We understand that this news may feel unsettling, particularly for our students, faculty, and staff who may already be navigating uncertainty,” the college said in one of the statements. “Our ability to share specifics is limited by law, but please know that our focus remains on supporting the student and their family, as well as the wellbeing of our community.” Speaking to The Boston Globe, which first reported the story, Lopez Belloza said she had been eager to return home to Austin and share her college experiences with her family. “I have worked so hard to be able to be at Babson my first semester, that was my dream,” she told the Globe from her grandparents’ home in San Pedro Sula. Pomerleau said the focus now is on returning Lopez Belloza to the US. “We’re going to ask that the federal judge require the United States to bring her back to the United States because it is an egregious violation of her due process rights.” CNN’s Nicquel Terry Ellis contributed to this report. Immigration See all topics Facebook Tweet Email Link Link Copied! Follow Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Listen Watch US Crime + Justice World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Politics Trump Facts First CNN Polls 2026 Elections Calendar Redistricting Tracker Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear &amp; Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships CNN Underscored Electronics Fashion Beauty Health &amp; Fitness Home Reviews Deals Gifts Travel Outdoors Pets Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food &amp; Drink Stay News Videos Sports Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Winter Olympics 2026 Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Watch Featured Shows &amp; Films Network TV Clips CNN Headlines CNN Shorts Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Photo Shuffle Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Subscribe Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN US Watch Listen Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Follow CNN Download the CNN app Download the CNN app Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility &amp; CC About Subscribe Newsletters Transcripts Help Center &copy; 2026 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network. Download the CNN app Scan the QR code to download the CNN app on Google Play. Download the CNN app Scan the QR code to download the CNN app from the Apple Store.