Man struck dead by vehicle on Virginia highway after trying to flee immigration agents | PBS News Full Episode Monday, Jan 26 Close Menu PBS NewsHour Episodes Podcasts Newsletters The Latest Politics Brooks and Capehart Politics Monday Supreme Court Arts CANVAS Poetry Now Read This Nation Supreme Court Race Matters Essays Brief But Spectacular World Agents for Change Compass Points Economy Making Sen$e Paul Solman Science The Leading Edge ScienceScope Basic Research Innovation and Invention Health Horizons Long-Term Care Education Teachers --> Teachers' Lounge Student Reporting Labs For Teachers Newshour Classroom About Feedback Funders Support Jobs Close Menu Support PBS News Your generous monthly contribution— or whatever you can give—will help secure our future. Donate now Close Popup PBS News Menu Notifications Get news alerts from PBS News Turn on desktop notifications? Yes Not now Full Episodes Podcasts Newsletters Live By — Sophia Tareen, Associated Press Sophia Tareen, Associated Press By — Melina Walling, Associated Press Melina Walling, Associated Press Leave your feedback Share Copy URL https://www.pbs.org/newshour/nation/man-struck-dead-by-vehicle-on-virginia-highway-after-trying-to-flee-immigration-agents Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Pinterest Tumblr Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Man struck dead by vehicle on Virginia highway after trying to flee immigration agents Nation Oct 27, 2025 1:05 PM EST A 24-year-old Honduran man who was fleeing federal immigration agents in Virginia died on a highway after being struck by a vehicle. The death of Josué Castro Rivera follows recent incidents in which three other immigrants in Chicago and California were killed during immigration enforcement operations under the Trump administration's crackdown. Castro Rivera was headed to a gardening job Thursday when his vehicle was pulled over by Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers, brother Henry Castro said. READ MORE: ICE officer shoots and kills suspect who dragged officer with car near Chicago, DHS says Agents tried to detain Castro Rivera and the three other passengers, and he fled on foot, tried to cross Interstate 264 in Norfolk and was fatally struck, according to state and federal authorities. Educate your inbox Subscribe to Here&rsquo;s the Deal, our politics newsletter for analysis you won&rsquo;t find anywhere else. Enter your email address Subscribe Form error message goes here. Thank you. Please check your inbox to confirm. Castro Rivera came to the United States four years ago and was working to send money to family in Honduras, according to his brother. "He had a very good heart," Castro said Sunday. The Department of Homeland Security said Castro Rivera's vehicle was stopped by ICE as part of a "targeted, intelligence-based" operation and passengers were detained for allegedly living in the country without legal permission. READ MORE: Family says a Mexican man shot at a Dallas ICE facility has died DHS said in a statement that Castro Rivera "resisted heavily and fled" and died after a passing vehicle struck him. DHS officials did not respond Sunday to requests for further comment. Virginia State Police said officers responded to a report of a vehicle-pedestrian crash around 11 a.m. Thursday on eastbound I-264 at the Military Highway interchange. Police said Rivera was hit by a 2002 Ford pickup and was pronounced dead at the scene. The crash remains under investigation. READ MORE: Massachusetts student arrested by ICE on his way to volleyball practice has been released Federal authorities and state police gave his first name as Jose, but family members said it was Josué. DHS and state police did not explain the discrepancy. Castro called his brother's death an injustice and said he is raising money to transport the body back to Honduras for funeral. "He didn't deserve everything that happened to him," Castro said. DHS blamed Castro Rivera's death on "a direct result of every politician, activist and reporter who continue to spread propaganda and misinformation about ICE's mission and ways to avoid detention." WATCH: Mother speaks out after teen with disabilities mistakenly arrested in immigration raid Similar deaths amid immigration operations elsewhere have triggered protests, lawsuits and calls for investigation amid claims that the Trump administration's initial accounts are misleading. Last month in suburban Chicago, federal immigration agents fatally shot a Mexican man during a traffic stop. DHS initially said a federal officer was "seriously injured," but police body camera video showed the federal officer walking around and describing his own injuries as " nothing major." In July a farmworker who fell from a greenhouse roof during a chaotic ICE raid at a California cannabis facility died of his injuries. And in August a man ran away from federal agents onto a freeway in the same state and was fatally struck by a vehicle. A free press is a cornerstone of a healthy democracy. Support trusted journalism and civil dialogue. Donate now Left: Photo by Getty Images Related Deadly crash in California renews federal criticism of immigrant truck drivers By Corey Williams, Associated Press Immigrant rights group says pregnant women in ICE detention received inadequate care By Sara Cline, Valerie Gonzalez, Associated Press Go Deeper department of homeland security honduras ice immigration immigration and customs enforcement norfolk virginia By — Sophia Tareen, Associated Press Sophia Tareen, Associated Press By — Melina Walling, Associated Press Melina Walling, Associated Press --> Support Provided By: Learn more Educate your inbox Subscribe to Here&rsquo;s the Deal, our politics newsletter for analysis you won&rsquo;t find anywhere else. Enter your email address Subscribe Form error message goes here. Thank you. Please check your inbox to confirm. Full Episode Monday, Jan 26 PBS News &copy; 1996 - 2026 NewsHour Productions LLC. All Rights Reserved. PBS is a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization. Sections The Latest Politics Arts Nation World Economy Science Health Education About About Us TV Schedule Press Feedback Funders Support Newsletters Podcasts Jobs Privacy Terms of Use Stay Connected Facebook YouTube Instagram X TikTok Threads RSS Subscribe to Here's the Deal with Lisa Desjardins Enter your email address Subscribe Form error message goes here. Thank you. Please check your inbox to confirm. Support our journalism Support for News Hour Provided By