Title: Man struck dead by vehicle on Virginia highway after trying to flee immigration agents
Authors: Sophia Tareen, Associated Press, Melina Walling
Published: 2025-10-27 13:05:22-05:00

Agents tried to detain Castro Rivera and the three other passengers, and he fled on foot, tried to cross Interstate 264 in Norfolk and was fatally struck, according to state and federal authorities.

Castro Rivera was headed to a gardening job Thursday when his vehicle was pulled over by Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers, brother Henry Castro said.

The death of Josué Castro Rivera follows recent incidents in which three other immigrants in Chicago and California were killed during immigration enforcement operations under the Trump administration's crackdown.

A 24-year-old Honduran man who was fleeing federal immigration agents in Virginia died on a highway after being struck by a vehicle.

Castro Rivera came to the United States four years ago and was working to send money to family in Honduras, according to his brother.

"He had a very good heart," Castro said Sunday.

The Department of Homeland Security said Castro Rivera's vehicle was stopped by ICE as part of a "targeted, intelligence-based" operation and passengers were detained for allegedly living in the country without legal permission.

READ MORE: Family says a Mexican man shot at a Dallas ICE facility has died

DHS said in a statement that Castro Rivera "resisted heavily and fled" and died after a passing vehicle struck him. DHS officials did not respond Sunday to requests for further comment.

Virginia State Police said officers responded to a report of a vehicle-pedestrian crash around 11 a.m. Thursday on eastbound I-264 at the Military Highway interchange. Police said Rivera was hit by a 2002 Ford pickup and was pronounced dead at the scene.

The crash remains under investigation.

READ MORE: Massachusetts student arrested by ICE on his way to volleyball practice has been released

Federal authorities and state police gave his first name as Jose, but family members said it was Josué. DHS and state police did not explain the discrepancy.

Castro called his brother's death an injustice and said he is raising money to transport the body back to Honduras for funeral.

"He didn't deserve everything that happened to him," Castro said.

DHS blamed Castro Rivera's death on "a direct result of every politician, activist and reporter who continue to spread propaganda and misinformation about ICE's mission and ways to avoid detention."

WATCH: Mother speaks out after teen with disabilities mistakenly arrested in immigration raid

Similar deaths amid immigration operations elsewhere have triggered protests, lawsuits and calls for investigation amid claims that the Trump administration's initial accounts are misleading.

Last month in suburban Chicago, federal immigration agents fatally shot a Mexican man during a traffic stop. DHS initially said a federal officer was "seriously injured," but police body camera video showed the federal officer walking around and describing his own injuries as " nothing major."

In July a farmworker who fell from a greenhouse roof during a chaotic ICE raid at a California cannabis facility died of his injuries. And in August a man ran away from federal agents onto a freeway in the same state and was fatally struck by a vehicle.