Title: Federal agent shoots and kills man in Minneapolis, officials say
Authors: Nbc News, Gary Grumbach, Https, Media-Cldnry.S-Nbcnews.Com Image Upload Newscms, Brennan Leach, Matt Lavietes, Media-Cldnry.S-Nbcnews.Com Image Upload Newscms Matt-Lavietes-Byline-Jm.Jpg, Dennis Romero, Media-Cldnry.S-Nbcnews.Com Image Upload Newscms Dennis-Romero-Circle-Byline-Template.Jpg, Marlene Lenthang

In the state of Minnesota’s lawsuit against the Trump administration over Operation Metro Surge, Minnesota Solicitor General Liz Kramer and Minneapolis officials have sent a letter to U.S. District Judge Kate Menendez pleading with her to take action and provide the state with what they call the “urgent” emergency relief it needs.

“Plaintiffs, and Plaintiffs’ communities, are in urgent need of a Court-ordered respite to the irreparable injuries Defendants continue to cause to the health, safety, education, and welfare of Minneapolis, Saint Paul, and indeed the entire State of Minnesota,” Kramer and her colleagues write. “This cannot continue. We need the Court to act to stop this Surge before yet another resident dies because of Operation Metro Surge.”

They’re asking Menendez to “put the parties back in their positions before the Surge began and to immediately prevent even further irreparable harms to Plaintiffs’ ability to protect the public health, welfare, safety, and education. This will allow the Court—with the status quo duly preserved—to then examine the facts and the law in due course to consider more durable relief.”

“The record before the Court is more than sufficient to justify this immediate relief: Plaintiffs have demonstrated ongoing, irreparable harm and established serious constitutional claims," the letter says. "Every day that passes without Court intervention compounds these injuries and undermines the very rights this Court is charged to protect.”

A hearing on Minnesota’s initial motion for relief was scheduled for Monday, well before today’s events transpired. That hearing is still on.