Title: Protest held against reopening ICE immigration detention center in Newark
Published: 2025-03-11 17:00:00+00:00

Protest held against reopening ICE immigration detention center in Newark

NEWARK, New Jersey (WABC) -- Several hundred demonstrators gathered in Newark on Tuesday, protesting the opening of what will be one of the largest ICE detention centers for migrants on the East Coast.

Delaney Hall, which previously housed immigrants from 2011 and 2017, will be the first facility to open under President Donald Trump's administration.

The private, for-profit detention facility is getting a contract from the federal government to reopen as a federal immigration processing and detention center.

The facility is the largest in the region, housing over 1,000 beds.

A few hundred people, all part of more than 30 faith, unions, labor, and immigrant rights organizations, hosted the demonstration outside of the building in Newark.

Migrants Ain't Going Anywhere is on the MAGA signs those in attendance were holding along with other signs in support of migrants.

The signs tell the story of dissatisfaction with the direction of the leadership in Washington.

"Human rights are the most important thing in this country and they are being flushed right now," said Branchville resident Gail Earley.

Immigrants like Rafael Chavez, a New Jersey resident, spoke out at the rally.

"They came here for a better life and maybe they have other issues there, like people that kill in our countries," said New Jersey resident Rafael Chavez.

Lily Benavides, an immigrant, spoke about some of her family members who support President Trump's immigration agenda.

"I put distance between us... it's just difficult. There's no way to convince them... maybe if something happens to their family members and they will see it," said Benavides, a New Jersey resident.

The building on Tuesday had police tape in front of it, there were guards at the gate and several vehicles in the parking lot.

Newark Mayor Ras Baraka is vowing to do everything to keep Delaney Hall out of commission.

He said ICE cannot lawfully open "without satisfying city property-use requirements, inspections, and permits," and says an immigration detention center is "not welcomed here."

"The reopening of Delaney Hall as a private immigration detention center is only going to increase unjust arrests and family separation here in the state of New Jersey," said Nedia Morsy, of Make the Road NJ. "As a prison group, Delaney Hall has a long history of abuse and neglect and reopening it is just continuing that legacy."

----------

* Get Eyewitness News Delivered

* More New Jersey news

* Send us a news tip

* Download the abc7NY app for breaking news alerts

* Follow us on YouTube

Submit a tip or story idea to Eyewitness News

Have a breaking news tip or an idea for a story we should cover? Send it to Eyewitness News using the form below. If attaching a video or photo, terms of use apply.