What to know about the newly opened immigration detention center in Newark, NJ - WHYY
Skip to content
Courts & Law
Government Accountability
Immigration
New Jersey
Policing
Facebook
Twitter
Email
President
Donald Trump
‘s administration expanded its capacity to detain immigrants not legally in the country by opening a facility in New Jersey’s largest city this month, spurring protests outside the fenced-in building including from Newark Mayor
Ras Baraka
.
Delaney Hall
, a 1,000-bed facility along an industrial stretch of Newark Bay, opened May 1, according to the private prison company that operates the center. The administration’s announcement came amid a headline-grabbing
crackdown on immigration around the country
and as it ramped up its efforts to deport certain immigrants.
The situation is playing out in Newark and in federal court as the mayor litigates against the company running the facility. The city says it shouldn’t be open yet because of building permit issues. The conflict underscores the divide between what Trump views as an election mandate to deport people not lawfully in the U.S., and Democratic officials who question
the administration’s methods
as well as the necessity of cracking down.
A closer look at what’s going on at the Newark detention center.
WHYY thanks our sponsors — become a WHYY sponsor
What is Delaney Hall and why is it in the news?
The gray, two-story building next to a county prison operated as a halfway house before a February announcement from Immigration and Customs Enforcement that it and the GEO Group, which runs Delaney Hall, reached a $1 billion, 15-year deal for a detention center there.
The new facility sparked pushback from immigrants rights groups and the mayor in particular. Baraka sued GEO Group soon after the deal between the company and ICE was announced. The case got transferred from state to federal court, where a judge is considering the city’s request to temporarily block the opening of the facility.
It’s not clear whether anyone is held inside yet. GEO Group did not comment on whether it was holding detainees at Delaney Hall, and ICE did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Related Content
Studio 2
Courts & Law
Immigration enforcement in the Greater Philadelphia Area
On this episode of Studio 2, we talk to the people involved in cases of detention and deportation and explain sanctuary status and changing immigration policies in our region.
Air Date: April 17, 2025 12:00 pm
Listen
51:16
What does the mayor say about it?
Baraka says the facility lacks the proper city permits in order to open, including a certificate of occupancy. He appeared Tuesday and Wednesday outside the facility’s gates, aiming to gain entry but ultimately being denied.
This comes as the mayor, who is the son of late poet and activist Amiri Baraka, is in a crowded Democratic primary to succeed term-limited Gov. Phil Murphy, also a Democrat. Baraka has embraced the fight with the Trump administration over illegal immigration, arguing the president is pushing constitutional due process limits.
“It’s not a Democratic or Republican issue in my mind. This is an issue of human rights, an issue of due process, an issue of the Fourth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States,” he said this week. “We are afraid and opposed and alarmed by them setting up a detention center.”
The city says Delaney Hall has permit issues such as needing grounded electrical outlets in a half-dozen rooms in the facility, and a new entry gate that needs a permit related to electrical work, among other things. That’s according to code inspection documents submitted in legal filings for the city’s case against GEO Group. The inspection didn’t find any problems with how fire extinguishers had been serviced, and said exit signs were properly installed.
WHYY thanks our sponsors — become a WHYY sponsor
Where does the company running the facility stand?
Florida-based GEO Group said the mayor is politicizing the situation and that city officials didn’t object when the Obama administration operated the facility as an ICE processing center.
Christopher Ferreira, a company spokesperson, said via a statement that the facility is creating “hundreds of unionized jobs, with an average annual salary of $105,000, and is expected to contribute $50 million to the local Newark economy.”
In legal filings, the company has argued there’s no legal standing for the city to seek a preliminary injunction based on the “purported violations of city codes.”
Get daily updates from WHYY News!
The free WHYY News Daily newsletter delivers the most important local stories to your inbox.
Enter your email here
Share this
Facebook
Twitter
Email
WHYY is your source for fact-based, in-depth journalism and information. As a nonprofit organization, we rely on financial support from readers like you. Please
give today.
Part of the series
Trump Impact
View the series
You may also like
Courts & Law
Bucks County sheriff ends ICE collaboration agreement
Newly elected Sheriff Danny Ceisler said the county is “not a sanctuary county,” and its Department of Corrections will continue to share information with ICE.
2 weeks ago
Listen
1:10
Courts & Law
6abc
Viral video of masked federal agents confronting Burlington Twp. resident draws criticism from N.J. Rep. Conway
The footage, recorded Nov. 8, shows agents on private property while the unidentified homeowner, who was out of town, pleads with them remotely.
2 months ago
Courts & Law
Philadelphia-based court hears appeal in pivotal freedom of speech case regarding Columbia student detained by ICE
The case involving Mahmoud Khalil has far-reaching implications for free speech, executive power and the limits of federal immigration authority.
3 months ago
About Associated Press
Read more
@AP
Want a digest of WHYY’s programs, events & stories?
Sign up for our weekly newsletter.
Enter your email here
Together we can reach 100% of WHYY’s fiscal year goal
Donate
Learn about WHYY Member benefits
Ways to Donate