Oklahoma troopers arrest more than 100 people in 3-day immigration blitz | KOSU Search Query Show Search Shows &amp; Podcasts Radio Schedule KOSU Podcasts The KOSU Daily This Week in Oklahoma Politics Oklahoma Rock Show StateImpact Oklahoma Focus: Black Oklahoma Red Dirt DnD Fresh Air All Shows &amp; Podcasts Radio Schedule KOSU Podcasts The KOSU Daily This Week in Oklahoma Politics Oklahoma Rock Show StateImpact Oklahoma Focus: Black Oklahoma Red Dirt DnD Fresh Air All Shows &amp; Podcasts News Oklahoma News Weather Oklahoma&#x27;s 2025 Elections Indigenous Affairs Harvest Public Media Health All News Oklahoma News Weather Oklahoma&#x27;s 2025 Elections Indigenous Affairs Harvest Public Media Health All News Music Concert Calendar Oklahoma Music Minute Oklahoma Rock Show New Music Weekly Songwriters &amp; Tour Riders Jarvix&#x27;s Hot Dog! Song of the Week The Spy All Local Music NPR Music Concert Calendar Oklahoma Music Minute Oklahoma Rock Show New Music Weekly Songwriters &amp; Tour Riders Jarvix&#x27;s Hot Dog! Song of the Week The Spy All Local Music NPR Music Newsletters Connect Community Calendar Submit an Event Ticket Giveaways How to Listen KOSU Texting Club Volunteer Community Calendar Submit an Event Ticket Giveaways How to Listen KOSU Texting Club Volunteer OKC Guide Support Donate Now Become a Member Join the Champions Circle Matching Companies Donate Your Vehicle Donate Your Excess Fleet Sign Up for NPR+ Business Support Join the Business Circle Foundation Support Planned Giving Donor Advised Fund Giving Donate Now Become a Member Join the Champions Circle Matching Companies Donate Your Vehicle Donate Your Excess Fleet Sign Up for NPR+ Business Support Join the Business Circle Foundation Support Planned Giving Donor Advised Fund Giving About Us About KOSU Inside KOSU How to Listen Contact Us Republication Policy KOSU Staff Jobs Station Policies Financial Documents About KOSU Inside KOSU How to Listen Contact Us Republication Policy KOSU Staff Jobs Station Policies Financial Documents Search facebook instagram linkedin youtube © 2025 KOSU Menu Show Search Search Query Donate Play Live Radio Next Up: 0:00 0:00 0:00 0:00 Available On Air Stations On Air Now Playing KOSU Radio On Air Now Playing The Spy FM All Streams Shows &amp; Podcasts Radio Schedule KOSU Podcasts The KOSU Daily This Week in Oklahoma Politics Oklahoma Rock Show StateImpact Oklahoma Focus: Black Oklahoma Red Dirt DnD Fresh Air All Shows &amp; Podcasts Radio Schedule KOSU Podcasts The KOSU Daily This Week in Oklahoma Politics Oklahoma Rock Show StateImpact Oklahoma Focus: Black Oklahoma Red Dirt DnD Fresh Air All Shows &amp; Podcasts News Oklahoma News Weather Oklahoma&#x27;s 2025 Elections Indigenous Affairs Harvest Public Media Health All News Oklahoma News Weather Oklahoma&#x27;s 2025 Elections Indigenous Affairs Harvest Public Media Health All News Music Concert Calendar Oklahoma Music Minute Oklahoma Rock Show New Music Weekly Songwriters &amp; Tour Riders Jarvix&#x27;s Hot Dog! Song of the Week The Spy All Local Music NPR Music Concert Calendar Oklahoma Music Minute Oklahoma Rock Show New Music Weekly Songwriters &amp; Tour Riders Jarvix&#x27;s Hot Dog! Song of the Week The Spy All Local Music NPR Music Newsletters Connect Community Calendar Submit an Event Ticket Giveaways How to Listen KOSU Texting Club Volunteer Community Calendar Submit an Event Ticket Giveaways How to Listen KOSU Texting Club Volunteer OKC Guide Support Donate Now Become a Member Join the Champions Circle Matching Companies Donate Your Vehicle Donate Your Excess Fleet Sign Up for NPR+ Business Support Join the Business Circle Foundation Support Planned Giving Donor Advised Fund Giving Donate Now Become a Member Join the Champions Circle Matching Companies Donate Your Vehicle Donate Your Excess Fleet Sign Up for NPR+ Business Support Join the Business Circle Foundation Support Planned Giving Donor Advised Fund Giving About Us About KOSU Inside KOSU How to Listen Contact Us Republication Policy KOSU Staff Jobs Station Policies Financial Documents About KOSU Inside KOSU How to Listen Contact Us Republication Policy KOSU Staff Jobs Station Policies Financial Documents Search facebook instagram linkedin youtube KOSU is pushing toward the future — join us! Federal funding for public media may have been eliminated, but that’s not stopping KOSU from doing the work that matters. Donate now! Local News Oklahoma troopers arrest more than 100 people in 3-day immigration blitz KOSU | By Sierra Pfeifer Published&nbsp;October 1, 2025 at 5:20 AM CDT Facebook Twitter Bluesky LinkedIn Flipboard Email Sierra Pfeifer / KOSU Oklahoma Public Safety Commissioner Tim Tipton speaks to reporters at a press conference on Tuesday, Sept. 30, 2025. Oklahoma Highway Patrol arrested 120 people in a three-day immigration sweep that targeted commercial truck drivers entering the state along Interstate 40, officials said Tuesday. The operation was staged at a port of entry in Beckham County just east of the Texas border, where semi-trucks traveling eastbound are required to stop. Troopers, working in partnership with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, screened 520 drivers over the course of a three-day blitz, according to Public Safety Commissioner Tim Tipton. Most interactions took place during routine passes through the weigh station, but some were the result of traffic infractions, Tipton said. Nearly one in four people stopped were arrested for being in the country illegally, he said. “A quarter of the people that we came into contact with didn't have legal status to be here,” Tipton said. The arrests are part of a broader deportation plan , dubbed Operation Guardian, announced by Oklahoma Gov. Kevin Stitt earlier this year. As part of the operation, Tipton said every single Highway Patrol officer has been authorized by ICE to interrogate, arrest and detain illegal immigrants. “Allowing [troopers] to do this cross-commissioning or credentialing process, and allowing state and local law enforcement to do it, we now have a way to take enforcement action,” Tipton said. Tipton said undocumented immigrants hailed from more than 18 countries and all had crossed into the U.S. through the southern border. According to Tipton, most of the 120 undocumented immigrants were taken to be processed in an ICE office in Oklahoma City, while some others were taken to Tulsa. The Oklahoma Department of Corrections assisted with transport. "And then from there,” Tipton said, “ICE then transfers them to whatever holding facility they're going to use, whether it's in Oklahoma or Texas." He said some people could have been brought to county jails that have contracts allowing them to operate as short-term holding facilities. Approximately 90 people arrested were commercial truck drivers, and Tipton said their vehicles were impounded at local storage yards. Tipton said the drivers held commercial licenses issued in multiple states, including California, New York, Pennsylvania and Illinois. Trucking companies or owners can recover the vehicles by paying towing and storage fees, Tipton said. He said the sweep is part of a crackdown on immigration that will continue in the future. “Now that we have an administration in place that will let us apply the law, this absolutely will be a sustained model,” Tipton said. Sign up for KOSU newsletters! Get Oklahoma news and music updates in your inbox. Email Address * KOSU Newsletters The KOSU Daily The Spy Bulletin Breaking News Tags Local News law enforcement Oklahoma Highway Patrol Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) immigration / migration Facebook Twitter Bluesky LinkedIn Flipboard Email Sierra Pfeifer Sierra Pfeifer is a reporter covering mental health and addiction at KOSU. See stories by Sierra Pfeifer ArtDesk Conversation with Mary Louise Kelly Join KOSU + ArtDesk on Tuesday, Nov. 4 in Oklahoma City for a special evening with the NPR host! Secure your tickets! Sign up for KOSU newsletters! Get Oklahoma news and music updates in your inbox. Email Address * KOSU Newsletters The KOSU Daily The Spy Bulletin Breaking News The Latest From KOSU Paycom lays off 500 employees, will replace jobs with AI Bartees Strange returns to Oklahoma City for intimate solo concert Headlines: Ryan Walters resigns, state tax challenge &amp; Pumpkinville fall festival Donate Your Car to KOSU! Get Started Here Support local news &amp; independent music with a donation KOSU is nonprofit and independent. Our local news and information is available for the entire community because of support from our members. You can help. Start a monthly donation today! Related Content Local News Stitt touts over 100 arrests of unauthorized migrants along I-40 in highway patrol, ICE operation Politics Fired feds, Trump lovers and veterans: Meet the people applying for ICE jobs U.S. News Dallas shooter sought to &#x27;terrorize&#x27; ICE workers, official says U.S. News Oklahoma marijuana farms pose a threat to national security, officials tell Congress Stay Connected instagram youtube bluesky facebook linkedin © 2025 KOSU About KOSU Contact Us Public Documents How to Listen The KOSU Daily Oklahoma City Guide Donate Now Ticket Giveaways Newsletters