Oklahoma troopers arrest more than 100 people in 3-day immigration blitz | KOSU
Search Query
Show Search
© 2025 KOSU
Menu
Show Search
Search Query
Donate
Play Live Radio
Next Up:
0:00
0:00
0:00
0:00
Available On Air Stations
On Air
Now Playing
KOSU Radio
On Air
Now Playing
The Spy FM
All Streams
KOSU is pushing toward the future — join us!
Federal funding for public media may have been eliminated, but that’s not stopping KOSU from doing the work that matters.
Donate now!
Local News
Oklahoma troopers arrest more than 100 people in 3-day immigration blitz
KOSU |
By
Sierra Pfeifer
Published October 1, 2025 at 5:20 AM CDT
Facebook
Twitter
Bluesky
LinkedIn
Flipboard
Email
Sierra Pfeifer
/
KOSU
Oklahoma Public Safety Commissioner Tim Tipton speaks to reporters at a press conference on Tuesday, Sept. 30, 2025.
Oklahoma Highway Patrol arrested 120 people in a three-day immigration sweep that
targeted commercial truck drivers
entering the state along Interstate 40, officials said Tuesday.
The operation was staged at a
port of entry
in Beckham County just east of the Texas border, where semi-trucks traveling eastbound are required to stop.
Troopers, working in partnership with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, screened 520 drivers over the course of a three-day blitz, according to Public Safety Commissioner Tim Tipton.
Most interactions took place during routine passes through the weigh station, but some were the result of traffic infractions, Tipton said.
Nearly one in four people stopped were arrested for being in the country illegally, he said.
“A quarter of the people that we came into contact with didn't have legal status to be here,” Tipton said.
The arrests are part
of a broader deportation plan
, dubbed Operation Guardian, announced by Oklahoma Gov. Kevin Stitt earlier this year. As part of the operation, Tipton said every single Highway Patrol officer has been authorized by ICE to interrogate, arrest and detain illegal immigrants.
“Allowing [troopers] to do this cross-commissioning or credentialing process, and allowing state and local law enforcement to do it, we now have a way to take enforcement action,” Tipton said.
Tipton said undocumented immigrants hailed from more than 18 countries and all had crossed into the U.S. through the southern border.
According to Tipton, most of the 120 undocumented immigrants were taken to be processed in an ICE office in Oklahoma City, while some others were taken to Tulsa. The Oklahoma Department of Corrections assisted with transport.
"And then from there,” Tipton said, “ICE then transfers them to whatever holding facility they're going to use, whether it's in Oklahoma or Texas."
He said some people could have been brought to county jails that have contracts allowing them to operate as short-term holding facilities.
Approximately 90 people arrested were commercial truck drivers, and Tipton said their vehicles were impounded at local storage yards. Tipton said the drivers held commercial licenses issued in multiple states, including California, New York, Pennsylvania and Illinois.
Trucking companies or owners can recover the vehicles by paying towing and storage fees, Tipton said.
He said the sweep is part of a crackdown on immigration that will continue in the future.
“Now that we have an administration in place that will let us apply the law, this absolutely will be a sustained model,” Tipton said.
Sign up for KOSU newsletters!
Get Oklahoma news and music updates in your inbox.
Email Address
*
KOSU Newsletters
The KOSU Daily
The Spy Bulletin
Breaking News
Tags
Local News
law enforcement
Oklahoma Highway Patrol
Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE)
immigration / migration
Facebook
Twitter
Bluesky
LinkedIn
Flipboard
Email
Sierra Pfeifer
Sierra Pfeifer is a reporter covering mental health and addiction at KOSU.
See stories by Sierra Pfeifer
Support local news & independent music with a donation
KOSU is nonprofit and independent. Our local news and information is available for the entire community because of support from our members. You can help.
Start a monthly donation today!
Related Content
Politics
Ryan Walters resignation, Stitt's Operation Guardian, water fluoridation study and more
Local News
Stitt touts over 100 arrests of unauthorized migrants along I-40 in highway patrol, ICE operation
Politics
Fired feds, Trump lovers and veterans: Meet the people applying for ICE jobs
U.S. News
Dallas shooter sought to 'terrorize' ICE workers, official says