As ICE Courthouse Arrests Continue, Few Immigration Courts Resist Pushing Cases Into Expedited Removal - American Immigration Council Skip to content We envision a nation where immigrants are embraced, communities are enriched, and justice prevails for all. Sign Up Donate Now About Us About Us Our Impact Initiatives Theory of Change Financial Information Immigration Topics Immigration Topics Immigration 101 How Immigration System Works History of Immigration Birthright Citizenship Demographics Elections Immigration and Crime Immigration Reform Immigration at the Border Refugees + Asylum Seekers Work Authorization Economic Impact The Legal System Civic Engagement Immigration Benefits and Relief Business and the Workforce Industries Full Topic List Tools &#038; Resources Tools &#038; Resources For Attorneys Practice Advisories Amicus Briefs Litigation For Policymakers Map the Impact Immigration Where You Live Beyond A Border Solution For Educators How the U.S. Immigration System Works Immigration data across the country The State of Belonging in America For Business Leaders Global Talent Chamber Network New American Fortune 500 J-1 Cultural Exchange Program Civic Health Alliance Toolkit For Advocates Take Action Volunteer The Belonging Barometer For Press Sign Up for Media Updates Press Releases Stories J-1 Visa Sponsorship Services Building Connection Building Connection Center for Inclusion & Belonging Belonging Barometer Creative Writing Contest What Immigration Issues Do Americans Hold Sacred? Storytelling Belonging Begins With Us Ways to Help Ways to Help Volunteer Corporate Partnerships Institutional Donors Events Donate Today Contact Us We envision a nation where immigrants are embraced, communities are enriched, and justice prevails for all. Home / Blog / As ICE Courthouse Arrests Continue, Few Immigration Courts Resist Pushing Cases Into Expedited Removal As ICE Courthouse Arrests Continue, Few Immigration Courts Resist Pushing Cases Into Expedited Removal Published: November 20, 2025 Author: Laila Khan Topics: Due Process and the Courts , Immigration Courts , Interior Enforcement , Mass Deportation Share: The American Immigration Council is a non-profit, non-partisan organization. Sign up to receive our latest analysis as soon as it's published. Immigration courthouse arrests and dismissals have become a cornerstone of the Trump administration’s mass deportation plan. Since May 20 , U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) attorneys have been asking immigration judges to dismiss noncitizens’ immigration court cases to funnel them into expedited remova l—a faster deportation process with fewer due process protections. National trends show that immigration judges are largely acquiescing to this plan by granting ICE’s requests on the spot. But new data analysis shows considerable variation by location: some immigration courts are resisting this new deportation tactic and others rubber-stamping these motions to dismiss. &nbsp; What is a Motion to Dismiss? A motion to dismiss is a request made by a noncitizen, their attorney, or the government to end the noncitizen’s removal proceeding. Like other motions in immigration court, these requests are usually filed in writing , absent permission otherwise, and court procedures typically allow 10 days for the other party to respond. New ICE Dismissal Policy On May 20, ICE ordered its prosecutors to make oral motions to dismiss noncitizens&#8217; immigration cases so it could instead seek to deport them through expedited removal. A few days later, the Executive Office for Immigration Review—which oversees immigration courts—advised immigration judges to grant these oral motions. Based on data obtained through the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), ICE oral motions to dismiss increased by 633% on May 20 and immigration judges largely granted them on the spot. Between May 20 to July 28, 2025: 80.6% of motions were oral ,showing ICE’s deviation from immigration court procedures requiring written motions. 86.5% of oral motions were adjudicated the same day , depriving noncitizens of their 10 days to respond to ICE’s dismissal requests. 79.6% of oral motions adjudicated the same day were granted , allowing ICE to place individuals whose cases were dismissed into expedited removal. However, a court-by-court analysis demonstrates drastic differences in adjudication outcomes by location. Different Courts Have Different Outcomes: Comparing New York, Los Angeles, and Atlanta New York City’s Federal Plaza Immigration Court has been the epicenter of media coverage for immigration courthouse arrests. Elected officials and other demonstrators have been arrested by Department of Homeland Security agents for protesting ICE courthouse arrests. But Federal Plaza has been one of the least hostile jurisdictions for noncitizens as it relates to motions to dismiss—its immigration judges have generally refused to dismiss noncitizens cases. ICE filed 268 oral motions to dismiss at Federal Plaza between May 20 to July 28, 2025, but immigration judges granted only 77 on the spot. By contrast, Van Nuys Immigration Court in Los Angeles, California and Atlanta W. Peachtree Immigration Court in Atlanta, Georgia—both of which had far less media coverage but received a similar number of ICE oral motions to dismiss as New York Federal Plaza—generally favored ICE in their adjudication of these motions. At Van Nuys, ICE filed 217 oral motions to dismiss, 215 of which immigration judges granted immediately. Similarly, at Atlanta W. Peachtree Immigration Court, ICE filed 193 oral motions to dismiss, every one of which was granted by an immigration judge on the spot. Judges in these venues were far more likely to overstep immigration court procedures and pave the way for ICE to deport noncitizens through expedited removal. Where Immigration Hearings Take Place Drastically Affects the Outcome of Motions to Dismiss The immigration court responsible for a noncitizen’s immigration case has a drastic effect on the outcome of a motion to dismiss. If the case is dismissed, the noncitizen is likely to face expedited removal. If the motion is denied, they have the chance to seek asylum or other relief from deportation. The table below lists the adjudication outcomes for immigration courts with the highest number of oral motions filed between May 20 to July 28, 2025. Immigration judges in particular courts are granting oral motions to dismiss on the spot at higher rates than others. While this practice does not appear to be uniform nationwide, it nonetheless violates due process. It deprives noncitizens of their 10-day period to respond to ICE’s dismissal request and funnels them into expedited removal process. For many, this outcome forecloses any chance to get their day in court. Comment on Data Analysis The Council received a spreadsheet with 6,616 rows—each an entry for a motion to dismiss filed between May 1, 2025, and July 28, 2025. Variables included the date the motion to dismiss was filed, the date the motion to dismiss was completed, the filing method (oral or written), decision (grant, deny, withdraw, or other), and the hearing location code.&nbsp; The dataset had a total of 206 distinct location codes, many of which are not listed in the publicly available data dictionary . To identify the immigration court corresponding to each location code, the Council consulted several researchers and former EOIR employees. These consultations failed to identify the immigration court for 11 location codes listed in 70 motions to dismiss. Thus, our data analysis excludes these 70 motions. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Immigration Court Trump Administration Related Resources Can Renee Good’s Family Sue ICE in the Aftermath of Her Killing? The Answer Is Complicated Abuses January 9, 2026 On the snowy streets of Minneapolis in the early days of January 2026, an ICE&hellip; Read More ICE Uses a Growing Web of AI Services to Power Its Immigration Enforcement and Surveillance Abuses December 18, 2025 The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) released an updated version of its Artificial Intelligence (AI)&hellip; Read More Trump's Travel Ban Decides the Real Winners and Losers of the 2026 FIFA World Cup Draw Economic Impact December 5, 2025 https://youtube.com/shorts/3a8ntXkq28s?si=fcTjXaG1iWOeVQYx Millions of people across the globe tuned into the draw for the 2026 FIFA&hellip; Read More Load More Map The Impact Explore immigration data where you live Explore Our Map Our Map the Impact tool has comprehensive coverage of more than 100 data points about immigrants and their contributions in all 50 states and the country overall. It continues to be widely cited in places ranging from Gov. Newsom’s declaration for California’s Immigrant Heritage Month to a Forbes article and PBS’ Two Cents series that targets millennials and Gen Z. 100+ datapoints about immigrants and their contributions Give Today Defend Immigrant Rights, Defend Democracy Donate Today Make a Monthly Gift Sign up for our newsletter 202-507-7500 PMB2026 2001 L Street N.W., Suite 500 Washington, DC 20036 About Us Tools &#038; Resources Our Impact Building Connection J-1 Cultural Exchange Immigration Justice Campaign Reports & Fact Sheets Newsroom Events Careers Financial Information Contact American Immigration Council is a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization. EIN number 52-1549711. Privacy Policy 2026 &copy; Copyright American Immigration Council. All rights reserved.