Video shows ICE agents facing backlash while detaining people in Baltimore - CBS Baltimore Latest U.S. Winter Storm Minneapolis Shooting World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds Baltimore | News Weather Sports Video On WJZ Local Maryland Best of WJZ at 9 Politics Consumer Business Health Entertainment First Alert Weather Radar &amp; Maps Closings/Delays Weather Watchers All Sports CBS Sports HQ Ravens Orioles Terps College Sports Horse Racing Golf Odds WJZ at 9 Community MVP Volunteer with WJZ WJZ and the Baltimore Banner HealthyMD WJZ Investigates AFRAM Black History Month About Us Meet The Team Contact Us Share A News Tip Links &amp; Numbers Nominate An MVP Advertise With Us Download The App Watch CBS News Local News Video shows ICE agents facing backlash while detaining people in Baltimore By Tara Lynch Tara Lynch Reporter, CBS Baltimore Tara Lynch is an Emmy-nominated reporter who is excited to share the stories of Baltimore. Read Full Bio Tara Lynch Updated on: June 11, 2025 / 9:21 AM EDT / CBS Baltimore Add CBS News on Google Clashes between Baltimore-area residents and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents played out in a video shared on social media. One video shows ICE agents detaining people in a shopping plaza in Catonsville, and another captured&nbsp;residents trying to chase agents out of their neighborhood in Highlandtown. Baltimore community opposes ICE presence WJZ obtained video from a Highlandtown resident that shows people outraged as ICE agents pulled people out of their corner. Baltimore City Councilman Mark Parker confirmed ICE agents detained two people between 11:15 a.m. and noon on Sunday, June 8, near the intersection of E. Baltimore and Ellwood streets. Several residents who spoke off-camera told WJZ that it was disturbing and concerning that ICE agents were arresting people in their neighborhood. Residents said the ICE agents did not identify themselves.&nbsp; "As a new homeowner in Patterson Park, I'm proud of how my neighbors showed up for our fellow humans," a Highlandtown resident said. "No person is illegal and doesn't deserve this type of treatment." Video shows ICE arrest at Maryland shopping plaza Another social media video shows someone being detained near a department store in Catonsville.&nbsp; "Now you're treating people just like they're animals, that's not right," said Lee, a Catonsville resident. "I wouldn't feel right if somebody just walked up to me today because you're Black, we [are] taking you in. I just don't think it's right. I don't think it's fair to be doing people like that. That's a human being. They're not a dog." Noah, a Hampden resident, told WJZ that he works with some people whose family members have been detained by ICE. He said he disagrees with the Trump administration's policy, and people are entitled to due process. "What they're doing is, to a degree, understandable, but how they're doing it isn't, isn't understandable," Noah said. "You can't hop out in masks with no badges and just take people. I work with these guys, a lot of people who they're taking, and in my opinion, they work harder than most of the people who are from here." Baltimore holds ICE protests On Monday, June 9, hundreds of immigration advocates marched from McKeldin Plaza to the George H. Fallon ICE Field Office in Baltimore in protest of immigration enforcement actions. The group blocked Calvert and Pratt streets on their way to Lombard and Charles streets, into the Hopkins plaza. Organizers of the weekly&nbsp; Eyes on ICE protests &nbsp;said the movement called on the Trump administration to stop violating human rights.&nbsp; According to organizers, the administration plans to spend $48 billion to expand immigration while also firing federal workers and cutting services that are vital for communities.&nbsp; "Everyone who sets foot in this country is entitled to due process, and we are watching what ICE is doing, and we hope that someday they will be held accountable for their actions," said Amy Lee, from the Free State Coalition. Among the crowd of protesters was Nilsa Yurivilca, who immigrated to the United States from Peru more than 10 years ago. She says many migrants are in search of a better life or opportunity. "A lot of people who immigrate, it is not a choice," Yurivilca said. "They want to just find happiness, safety, and a better future for their future generation&hellip;I am an immigrant myself, and I fully feel the targeting of this administration." Trump responds to nationwide ICE protests President Trump responded from the Oval Office on Tuesday to ICE protests nationwide. "They [the Biden administration] opened up our borders for the whole world to come in," Trump said. "Yeah, we're going to get them out. We're getting them out." ICE shares video of Baltimore arrests On May 27,&nbsp; ICE shared a video of agents arresting several people near a Home Depot on Eastern Avenue in Baltimore. The video posted to social media captured the moments as ICE agents jumped out of a pick-up truck at the "big-box home improvement store" and detained several people.&nbsp; The agents were heard telling the group to stay down, show their hands, and be quiet.&nbsp; Immigration enforcement officials said a tip led them to the shopping center where five people were arrested for allegedly being in the U.S. illegally.&nbsp; More from CBS News Georgia lawmakers react after Border Patrol agent kills man in Minneapolis More protests in Chicago after federal agents shoot, kill Minneapolis resident Marin County protesters rally against ICE, Border Patrol after killing of Alex Pretti Gov. Kathy Hochul calls for removal of DHS Secretary Kristi Noem Walz: Trump agrees to consider reducing federal surge in Minnesota In: Immigration U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement &copy; 2025 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved. Featured Local Savings Immigrant advocacy group holding march pushing back against local ICE raids Immigrant advocacy group holding march pushing back against local ICE raids 00:57 Immigrant advocacy group holding march pushing back against local ICE raids (00:57) Georgia lawmakers react after Border Patrol agent kills man in Minneapolis More protests in Chicago after federal agents shoot, kill Minneapolis resident Marin County protesters rally against ICE, Border Patrol after killing of Alex Pretti Gov. Kathy Hochul calls for removal of DHS Secretary Kristi Noem Walz: Trump agrees to consider reducing federal surge in Minnesota Philly protesters rally in support of Minnesota after another deadly shooting Some Border Patrol agents in Alex Pretti shooting had body cams, officials confirm What we know about latest shooting by federal agents in Minneapolis Featured Minneapolis Shooting Snowfall Totals Broncos vs. Patriots Seahawks vs. Rams Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X CBS News Baltimore Meet the Team Program Guide Contests &amp; Promotions Advertise With Us Sitemap Regulation Public File for WJZ-TV Public Inspection File Help FCC Applications EEO Report Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman &copy;2026 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue