Title: CASA: Highlandtown sees spike in ICE activity; Protests resume
Authors: Tommie Clark, Https, Www.Facebook.Com Tommieclarkwbal
Published: 2025-06-11 21:51:00+00:00

'I'm here showing support': Hundreds take to streets of Baltimore amid frustrations with ICE

People peacefully took their frustration with ICE to the streets of Baltimore on Wednesday.CASA said the Highlandtown area specifically has seen a spike in ICE activity. People marched against the detainments that they called unacceptable and inhumane."Can you imagine mothers separated from their children? That's crazy that this is happening in our communities," said Baltimore City Councilwoman Odette Ramos, D-District 14.| READ: Viral video shows ICE make arrests in Southeast BaltimoreHundreds of people joined together to have their voices heard while marching along the streets of East Baltimore."Even in Baltimore, immigrants are being picked up here every day. In L.A., obviously, it's very upsetting. So, I had to come out and support, and show that I care about our community," said Northeast Baltimore resident Sarah Woods.CASA said they've seen a spike in ICE activity from the Royal Farms off East Fayette to the Hazlo international grocery store."My family has been affected. A lot of people have been affected, so I'm here showing support," Highlandtown resident Gordy Garcia said.CASA has identified at least 16 people detained in the last three weeks, reportedly at times with violence."There has been people dragged out of that supermarket by masked agents that we don't know who they are," a CASA member shouted."Honestly, it has been heartbreaking because you see these hardworking people, people who are just here to try and make a living. Just the way it's been done cruelly across the country, I felt like I needed to be here," Maryland resident Cintya Flores said.People said an attack on their neighbors is an attack on them, and that they'll continue advocating for immigrant families."We need each other. We need community. We need everybody. Everyone here, you see every color here, you see every type of person. Beautiful," Garcia said.

People peacefully took their frustration with ICE to the streets of Baltimore on Wednesday.

CASA said the Highlandtown area specifically has seen a spike in ICE activity. People marched against the detainments that they called unacceptable and inhumane.

Advertisement

"Can you imagine mothers separated from their children? That's crazy that this is happening in our communities," said Baltimore City Councilwoman Odette Ramos, D-District 14.

| READ: Viral video shows ICE make arrests in Southeast Baltimore

Hundreds of people joined together to have their voices heard while marching along the streets of East Baltimore.

"Even in Baltimore, immigrants are being picked up here every day. In L.A., obviously, it's very upsetting. So, I had to come out and support, and show that I care about our community," said Northeast Baltimore resident Sarah Woods.

CASA said they've seen a spike in ICE activity from the Royal Farms off East Fayette to the Hazlo international grocery store.

"My family has been affected. A lot of people have been affected, so I'm here showing support," Highlandtown resident Gordy Garcia said.

CASA has identified at least 16 people detained in the last three weeks, reportedly at times with violence.

"There has been people dragged out of that supermarket by masked agents that we don't know who they are," a CASA member shouted.

"Honestly, it has been heartbreaking because you see these hardworking people, people who are just here to try and make a living. Just the way it's been done cruelly across the country, I felt like I needed to be here," Maryland resident Cintya Flores said.

People said an attack on their neighbors is an attack on them, and that they'll continue advocating for immigrant families.

"We need each other. We need community. We need everybody. Everyone here, you see every color here, you see every type of person. Beautiful," Garcia said.

This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.