Title: Spokane Police Reports Reveal New Details from June ICE Protest
Published: 2025-08-05 18:06:40

Newly released SPD body camera video reveals details of a June protest against ICE in Spokane.

Example video title will go here for this video

Example video title will go here for this video

To stream KREM on your phone, you need the KREM app.

SPOKANE, Wash. — Newly released Spokane Police Department body camera video and more than 200 pages of police reports are shedding new light on what officers say happened during a June protest against Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) in Spokane.

The protest was sparked by the detention of two Venezuelan men living in Spokane. Former Spokane City Council President Ben Stuckart called on the community to gather in protest. That gathering eventually led to the arrest of 30 individuals, including Stuckart himself, on charges ranging from assault to failure to disperse.

According to police records obtained by KREM 2 News through a public records request, 34 SPD officers documented their response to the protest. Their reports detailed the size of the crowd, behavior of demonstrators, and the tactics officers used to disperse the gathering.

Officers estimated the initial crowd size at 300 people, which they said swelled to as many as 1,800 by the evening.

Reports say some protesters blocked vehicles and damaged the tires of a van and a bus. One officer described the crowd swarming police and ICE vehicles, noting that protesters locked arms around vehicles while federal agents were still inside.

“The protesters locked arms around the vehicles. There were federal agents still inside the vehicle, and they were unable to exit... due to the protesters surrounding it,” one officer wrote.

Spokane police reports dispersal orders were issued around 7:15 p.m. and repeated at least five to six times without effect. Officers then gave warnings about the use of force. Reports show several officers deployed less-lethal munitions, including 40mm “bluenose” impact rounds, pepper ball launchers, and hand-tossed OC (pepper spray) munitions.

One officer said a protester threw at least two munition canisters at officers' heads. That officer reported giving multiple verbal warnings and wrote that he used an impact munition as the “least amount of force” necessary in the situation.

Spokane police said they worked with federal agencies during the protest response. They arrest of 30 individuals, including Stuckart who's arrest is seen in the newly obtained SPD body camera video.

Stuckart is now facing federal charges for conspiracy to impede or injure officers. His trial is scheduled for September 22.