Title: U.S. citizen detained after violent struggle with feds in L.A. speaks out
Authors: Josh Dubose
Published: 2025-06-26 05:23:59+00:00

This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.

A 20-year-old U.S. citizen who was detained after a violent struggle with federal immigration agents in Pico Rivera last week is speaking out after his recent release.

The June 17 melee unfolded in the parking lot of a sprawling retail center housing a Lowe’s Home Improvement store and Walmart in the 8600 block of Washington Boulevard.

In footage of the incident, at least a half-dozen federal law enforcement officers are seen in a struggle with a young man, later identified by family members as Adrian Andrew Martinez, who worked at the nearby Walmart.

Amid the fight, someone can be heard screaming, “He’s a U.S. citizen!”

Martinez appeared to be fighting back but was quickly taken to the ground and overpowered by additional agents before he was put into the back of a U.S. Customs and Border Protection vehicle and taken away.

The 20-year-old, who spoke with KTLA’s Carlos Saucedo, suffered bruises on his back and scratches all over his body, saying his neck is still sore from the “choking and grabbing they were doing.”

According to Martinez, he had just stepped out for his lunch break and saw immigration authorities questioning a janitor. Aware of the ongoing immigration enforcement activities in the area, he said he decided to step in and speak out.

Things quickly escalated from that point, according to the 20-year-old.

Federal immigration agents seen in a violent struggle with a man in Pico Rivera on June 17, 2025. (Instagram/@cameramanoscar)

Federal immigration agents seen in a violent struggle with a man in Pico Rivera on June 17, 2025. (Instagram/@cameramanoscar)

Federal immigration agents seen in a violent struggle with a man in Pico Rivera on June 17, 2025. (Instagram/@cameramanoscar)

Adrian Andrew Martinez, 20, in the custody of federal law enforcement who allege he punched an agent in the face in Pico Rivera on June 17, 2025. (USDOJ)

Adrian Martinez (R) is seen in an image provided by The Miller Law Group.

“I was just trying to get up and get them off me,” he told KTLA. “I didn’t know what was going on. I was very confused and scared because they weren’t explaining what they were doing.”

The 20-year-old said he was originally told he was being arrested for assault on a federal officer, a claim he denies doing.

A day after the ordeal, United States Attorney Bill Essayli posted video of the incident to his official government X account and said the 20-year-old was arrested on allegations that he punched “a border patrol agent in the face after he attempted to impede their immigration operation.”

Just hours after that post, U.S. Border Patrol Chief Patrol Agent Gregory K. Bovino reposted Essayli’s accusations, claiming “a false narrative was and is being pushed out on the arrest of a U.S. citizen.”

Since his release on a $5,000 bond, Martinez’s attorneys said no assault charges have been filed. Instead, he has been charged with a felony count of conspiracy to impede or injure a federal agent.

Myra Villarreal, the 20-year-old’s mother, said it was difficult reaching her son while he was in federal custody.

“When I saw the video, I was mad, angry. I was sad, scared. So many emotions I was going through,” she told KTLA. “No one should be treated that way. We all have the right to speak, to feel, and the way they acted, their actions, was wrong.”

Though he has since been fired from his job at Walmart, Martinez said he has no regrets over his actions.

“I was just there trying to stick up, speak up for a man that couldn’t speak up for himself,” he said.

Martinez and his attorneys are fighting the federal criminal charges