U.S. citizen detained by federal agents in Pico Rivera speaks out – NBC Los Angeles
Skip to content
Immigration
‘I would do it again.' U.S. citizen detained by federal agents in Pico Rivera speaks out
U.S. Attorney Bill Essayli originally said Adrian Martinez punched a Border Patrol agent in the face, but that's not the charge the 20-year-old Walmart employee faces in Los Angeles.
By
Alex Rozier
•
Published June 25, 2025
•
Updated on
June 26, 2025
at
11:49 am
BOOKMARKER
NBC Universal, Inc.
A 20-year-old U.S. citizen from Pico Rivera is speaking out after being detained by federal agents at a Walmart parking lot that led him to spend three nights in jail. Alex Rozier reports for the NBC4 News at 6 p.m. on June 25, 2025
A 20-year-old U.S. citizen is speaking out from his home Wednesday after being detained by federal agents at a
Pico Rivera shopping mall
and spending three nights in jail.
Adrian Martinez was arrested June 19 by federal agents during an immigration enforcement operation at a Walmart parking lot at the Pico Rivera Towne Center.
Stream Los Angeles News for free, 24/7, wherever you are.
WATCH HERE
Martinez, a Walmart employee, says he was on his break when he saw a maintenance man who needed help.
"Of course, I just felt bad because the man is, you know older, and he looked scared," said Martinez. "I just pull my car to the side and continue saying like, 'That’s not right, what are you guys doing? Leave that poor man alone. He’s not doing anything wrong, he’s just a hard worker.'"
Surveillance cameras captured the entire incident as federal agents drove through the Pico Rivera Towne Center and chased down the maintenance man. The video then shows Martinez moving the maintenance man’s cart in front of the federal agent's truck as they tried to pull it off.
"All I remember them saying is get him and I look and the man pushes me and then he knocks me on the floor and then from there I just remember what’s in front of me. People grabbing me, pushing me on the floor," said Martinez, recalling the event. "All I remember from that point, to get me in the van, is yanking on the back on my neck."
Martinez says the agents instructed him to be quiet after asking to call his mother.
Local
Get Los Angeles's latest local news on crime, entertainment, weather, schools, cost of living and more. Here's your go-to source for today's LA news.
Long Beach
10 minutes ago
Long Beach man accused of sending $1,600 to suspected ISIS terrorists pleads guilty
Echo Park
18 minutes ago
Video: Waymo goes rogue in Echo Park, crashes into several parked cars
After Martinez’s arrest, U.S. Attorney Bill Essayli said the 20-year-old punched a Border Patrol officer in the face. But no assault charges were filed.
Many people remain scared and angry over immigration agents in their communities. Lauren Coronado reports for the NBC4 News at 6 a.m. on June 18, 2025.
"Mr. Martinez was interfering with those operations," said Essayli. "It is against federal law to impede their investigations or to get in their way. If you do that, you will be arrested and you will be charged with a federal crime. If you assault an officer, you will be arrested and you will be charged with a federal crime. Don't do it. "
After spending three days in a downtown Los Angeles jail, Martinez is now facing federal charges for conspiracy to impede a federal officer.
"I would do it again because all I was doing was sticking up for someone who couldn’t talk for himself," said Martinez. "The fact that they are going for hard workers, people who are just working, trying to make a living, I don’t think that’s right."
This article tagged under:
Immigration
Close Menu
Create profile / Log in
Dashboard
Search for:
Local
Newsletters
California
US & World
Weather
NBC4 Investigates
Consumer
Submit a tip
Sports
Play The Challenge
Politics
NewsConference
Entertainment & Lifestyle
Entertainment News
California Live
The Scene
Travel & Adventure
NBC4 in the Community
Traffic
About Us
Our News Standards
Meet the News Team
Submit a Consumer Complaint
Send us your photos and videos
Contests
TV Schedule
Our Apps
Newsletters
Cozi TV
Follow Us
Facebook
Instagram
TikTok
Youtube
Contact Us