U.S. citizen detained by federal agents in Pico Rivera speaks out &#8211; NBC Los Angeles Skip to content Main Navigation Search Search for: Local NBC4 Investigates Weather U.S. &amp; World Entertainment Stream NBC LA News 24/7 Watch 24/7 Create profile / Log in Dashboard Email preferences Sign out Trending 🏈Super Bowl ⛸️Olympics 📺Devastation to Determination Helping Our Community 👀 NBCLA on YouTube 🏈&#039;The Challenge&#039; 🔍 NBC4 Investigates Tips ☀️ Watch: California Live Expand Immigration ‘I would do it again.' U.S. citizen detained by federal agents in Pico Rivera speaks out U.S. Attorney Bill Essayli originally said Adrian Martinez punched a Border Patrol agent in the face, but that's not the charge the 20-year-old Walmart employee faces in Los Angeles. By Alex Rozier &bull; Published June 25, 2025 &bull; Updated on June 26, 2025 at 11:49 am BOOKMARKER NBC Universal, Inc. A 20-year-old U.S. citizen from Pico Rivera is speaking out after being detained by federal agents at a Walmart parking lot that led him to spend three nights in jail. Alex Rozier reports for the NBC4 News at 6 p.m. on June 25, 2025 A 20-year-old U.S. citizen is speaking out from his home Wednesday after being detained by federal agents at a Pico Rivera shopping mall and spending three nights in jail. Adrian Martinez was arrested June 19 by federal agents during an immigration enforcement operation at a Walmart parking lot at the Pico Rivera Towne Center. Stream Los Angeles News for free, 24/7, wherever you are. &nbsp; WATCH HERE Martinez, a Walmart employee, says he was on his break when he saw a maintenance man who needed help. "Of course, I just felt bad because the man is, you know older, and he looked scared," said Martinez. "I just pull my car to the side and continue saying like, 'That’s not right, what are you guys doing? Leave that poor man alone. He’s not doing anything wrong, he’s just a hard worker.'" Surveillance cameras captured the entire incident as federal agents drove through the Pico Rivera Towne Center and chased down the maintenance man. The video then shows Martinez moving the maintenance man’s cart in front of the federal agent's truck as they tried to pull it off. "All I remember them saying is get him and I look and the man pushes me and then he knocks me on the floor and then from there I just remember what’s in front of me. People grabbing me, pushing me on the floor," said Martinez, recalling the event. "All I remember from that point, to get me in the van, is yanking on the back on my neck." Martinez says the agents instructed him to be quiet after asking to call his mother. Local Get Los Angeles&#039;s latest local news on crime, entertainment, weather, schools, cost of living and more. Here&#039;s your go-to source for today&#039;s LA news. Alhambra 9 minutes ago Rally held in Alhambra in response to woman&#039;s encounter with federal agents, local police Chatsworth 1 hour ago Manhole rescue leads to copper wire theft suspects After Martinez’s arrest, U.S. Attorney Bill Essayli said the 20-year-old punched a Border Patrol officer in the face. But no assault charges were filed. Many people remain scared and angry over immigration agents in their communities. Lauren Coronado reports for the NBC4 News at 6 a.m. on June 18, 2025. "Mr. Martinez was interfering with those operations," said Essayli. "It is against federal law to impede their investigations or to get in their way. If you do that, you will be arrested and you will be charged with a federal crime. If you assault an officer, you will be arrested and you will be charged with a federal crime. Don't do it.&nbsp;" After spending three days in a downtown Los Angeles jail, Martinez is now facing federal charges for conspiracy to impede a federal officer. "I would do it again because all I was doing was sticking up for someone who couldn’t talk for himself," said Martinez. "The fact that they are going for hard workers, people who are just working, trying to make a living, I don’t think that’s right." This article tagged under: Immigration on now 7AM: Today in LA Trending Stories Celebrity News Guy Fieri serves an unrecognizable ‘new look' for his 58th birthday Catalina Island Woman dies while scuba diving off Catalina Island coast Newport Beach Newport Beach police report increase in hillside residential burglaries Fullerton Pregnant mom killed in Anaheim crash was out for late-night snack when hit by suspected DUI driver Nature Egg elation: Egg #2 arrives for Jackie and Shadow, the Big Bear bald eagles Weather Forecast Facebook Instagram TikTok Youtube Newsletters About Us Our News Standards Contact Us and Meet the News Team Internships with NBC4 and Telemundo 52 Submit Tips for Investigations Xfinity: Internet, TV, streaming, more KNBC Public Inspection File KNBC Accessibility KNBC Employment Information FCC Applications Send Feedback Advertise With Us NEW Privacy Policy Terms of Service Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Ad Choices Copyright © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC. All rights reserved Close Menu Create profile / Log in Dashboard Search for: Local Newsletters California US &amp; World Weather NBC4 Investigates Consumer Submit a tip Sports Play The Challenge Politics NewsConference Entertainment &amp; Lifestyle Entertainment News California Live The Scene Travel &amp; Adventure NBC4 in the Community Traffic About Us Our News Standards Meet the News Team Submit a Consumer Complaint Send us your photos and videos Contests TV Schedule Our Apps Newsletters Cozi TV Follow Us Facebook Instagram TikTok Youtube Contact Us