US citizen arrested by Border Patrol in Pico Rivera speaks out after violent arrest | FOX 11 Los Angeles Live News Good Day LA FOX LOCAL Contests Newsletters More Watch Live Expand / Collapse search ☰ Search site News Local News California News Police Chases National News Entertainment Consumer Recalls Politics FOX News Sunday Weather Forecast Traffic Radar Air Quality Map Earthquakes Earthquake Preparedness Severe Weather Wildfires FOX Weather Good Day LA Guests Entertainment Local News Back-to-school Seen on TV Links Vote on our poll TikTok Tuesday Sports Rams Chargers Lakers Clippers Dodgers Angels Wildcats Kings Ducks LA Football Club Angel City Football Club Galaxy Sparks Features FOX 11 Originals The Issue Is: In Depth Wednesday's Child True Crime Files Lost Angeles: City of Homeless Community Champions When Magic Shocked the World Destination Education Get Inspired Rising Up Investigations Culture Conversations Remembering Kobe KTTV70 Watch FOX 11 Stream FOX 11 on FOX LOCAL Newscasts &amp; Replays Apps Live webcams from around SoCal Stay Connected Facebook Instagram TikTok YouTube Nextdoor Twitter/X How to stream Download our apps! Podcasts Daily Fast5 Newsletters Politics California Politics The Issue Is: Donald Trump Joe Biden Gavin Newsom Kamala Harris Battleground Money Economy Small Business Personal Finance Regional News San Francisco News - KTVU FOX 2 Phoenix News - FOX 10 Phoenix Seattle News - FOX 13 Seattle About Us Contests Meet the FOX 11 Team TV Schedule FOX Shows Jobs at FOX 11 Advertising FCC Public File FCC Applications Public Service Announcements ATSC FOX 11 Plus Contact Us Partnerships US citizen arrested by Border Patrol in Pico Rivera speaks out after violent arrest By Christina Gonzalez Published June 25, 2025 6:32pm PDT Pico Rivera FOX 11 Share Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Reddit US citizen released after violent arrest Adrian Martinez was released from federal custody after immigration agents violently arrested him in Pico Rivera for allegedly punching officers. But, video of the arrest didn't seem to show him hitting anyone. The Brief Adrian Martinez was released from federal custody this week. Martinez is being charged with conspiracy to impede or injure an officer. PICO RIVERA, Calif. - Following a federal hearing, Adrian Martinez was released from federal custody on a $5,000 bond this week. The 20-year-old was arrested by immigration officers at the Pico Rivera Walmart parking lot last week. The arrest was caught on camera. PREVIOUS COVERAGE: Feds say man punched agents at Pico Rivera Walmart - security footage shows no punches What we know: Federal immigration agents arrested Martinez on June 18 in the Walmart parking lot, when he tried to intervene while agents were conducting one of their operations, detaining undocumented immigrants. U.S. Customs and Border Patrol told FOX 11 after the incident that they arrested Martinez for allegedly punching two officers. Martinez has since been released by a federal judge on a $5,000 bond. SUGGESTED: LA ICE raids: Food vendor detained is being &apos;treated like an animal,&apos; family says &quot;I was scared,&quot; Martinez said, adding that he kept trying to get up when the officers subdued him, because he was afraid to get hit. Attorneys from the Miller Law Group, who are representing Martinez, say he is being charged &#x2014; not with assault, or attempted assault &#x2014; &#xA0;but conspiracy to impede or injure an officer, a felony.&#xA0; &quot;It is clearly a trumped-up charge field to justify the federal agents&apos; treatment&quot; attorneys wrote in their release. What they're saying: Martinez said he was held downtown, along with shackled, undocumented immigrants, and feared he&apos;d be deported, even as he tried to tell officers he was born in the US. &quot;They wouldn&apos;t talk to me, even let me use a phone to call my family and let them know were I was,&quot; Martinez said. Related article Feds say man punched agents at Pico Rivera Walmart - security footage shows no punches Federal agents arrested Adrian Martinez outside a Pico Rivera Walmart after they said he punched two agents. Security footage from the store doesn't appear to show Martinez throwing punches. Martinez&apos;s mother said she tried to show Adrian&apos;s birth certificate to agents at the Federal building, but they told her that Adrian wasn&apos;t there, even as he was watching his own mom from a van. He could not let her know where he was. &quot;These are the people we are supposed to trust,&quot; Adrian&apos;s mother said. Martinez&apos;s arrest and the accusation that he hit officers resulted in loud protests in Pico Rivera, where ICE raids have prompted complaints from the public and politicians. Martinez is due back in court next month.&#xA0; Kyle Perez of the United States Army Combined Arms Center issued the following statement via email: &quot;Mr. Martinez was arrested for assault on an officer and for impeding. At the complaint stage we only select one charge to present. The complaint does not reflect the full scope of the charges or the conduct, nor what evidence will be presented at trial.&quot; The Source: Information in this story is from interviews with the Martinez family and the Miller Law Group, and previous FOX 11 reports. Pico Rivera Immigration Crime and Public Safety Instastories Stream FOX 11 LA on FOX LOCAL Trending Denmark petition to 'buy' California surpasses 250K signatures D4vd’s friend, Neo, arrested after failing to appear as grand jury witness: TMZ Anti-ICE protests across California amid shootings of Keith Porter, Renee Good, Alex Pretti Pregnant woman killed in Anaheim DUI crash Chick-fil-A offering free breakfast at Southern California restaurants this week -- see where Subscribe to our YouTube channel Local News View More Alhambra PD accused of collaborating with ICE Sonar search of MacArthur Park Lake for possible bodies, guns stopped by park rangers, man claims Sydney Sweeney could face charges over Hollywood sign stunt Latest Videos video Kaiser healthcare workers strike day 2 video Palisades Charter HS reopens video Some ICE agents begin leaving Minneapolis News Local News California News Police Chases National News Entertainment Consumer Recalls Politics FOX News Sunday Weather Forecast Traffic Radar Air Quality Map Earthquakes Earthquake Preparedness Severe Weather Wildfires FOX Weather Good Day LA Guests Entertainment Local News Back-to-school Seen on TV Links Vote on our poll TikTok Tuesday Sports Rams Chargers Lakers Clippers Dodgers Angels Wildcats Kings Ducks LA Football Club Angel City Football Club Galaxy Sparks Features FOX 11 Originals The Issue Is: In Depth Wednesday's Child True Crime Files Lost Angeles: City of Homeless Community Champions When Magic Shocked the World Destination Education Get Inspired Rising Up Investigations Culture Conversations Remembering Kobe KTTV70 Watch FOX 11 Stream FOX 11 on FOX LOCAL Newscasts &amp; Replays Apps Live webcams from around SoCal Stay Connected Facebook Instagram TikTok YouTube Nextdoor Twitter/X How to stream Download our apps! Podcasts Daily Fast5 Newsletters Politics California Politics The Issue Is: Donald Trump Joe Biden Gavin Newsom Kamala Harris Battleground Money Economy Small Business Personal Finance Regional News San Francisco News - KTVU FOX 2 Phoenix News - FOX 10 Phoenix Seattle News - FOX 13 Seattle About Us Contests Meet the FOX 11 Team TV Schedule FOX Shows Jobs at FOX 11 Advertising FCC Public File FCC Applications Public Service Announcements ATSC FOX 11 Plus Contact Us Partnerships facebook twitter instagram youtube email About Us New Privacy Policy Updated Terms of Use Your Privacy Choices FCC Public File EEO Public File Closed Captioning Rescan your TV Contact Us This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2026 FOX Television Stations