4 charged after anti-ICE protest outside Chicago facility erupts in violence - ABC News ABC News Live Video Shows Shop Interest Successfully Added We&#x27;ll notify you here with news about Turn on desktop notifications for breaking stories about interest? Off On Stream on 4 charged after anti-ICE protest outside Chicago facility erupts in violence All four defendants are charged with assaulting and resisting federal officers. By Mason Leath September 30, 2025, 2:24 PM 2:09 Federal law enforcement agents attack demonstrators protesting outside of an immigrant processing center with a barrage of tear gas and pepper balls on September 27, 2025 in Broadview, Illinois. Scott Olson/Getty Images Federal charges have been filed against four individuals involved in the anti-ICE protests in Chicago over the weekend, according to court documents obtained by ABC News. The four defendants are being charged with assaulting and resisting officers outside the Broadview ICE facility during the multi-day protest on Saturday. The Department of Homeland Security told ABC News on Tuesday that an additional 11 individuals were arrested on Monday night as part of the continued protests. DHS posted on X photos of confiscated guns and other miscellaneous paraphernalia from the alleged 11 protestors. Federal law enforcement agents attack demonstrators protesting outside of an immigrant processing center with a barrage of tear gas and pepper balls on September 27, 2025 in Broadview, Illinois. Scott Olson/Getty Images Paul Ivery, one of the individuals charged over the weekend, allegedly showed his middle finger to federal agents at the protest before saying, “I’ll f------ kill you right now” and jumping on a car, causing damage to the vehicle, and fighting with a Homeland Security agent, according to the court filings. Hubert Mazur, Ray Collins and Jocelyne Robledo were also detained at the protests after engaging in physical altercations with federal officers, according to the court documents. Collins and Robledo were in possession of semiautomatic pistols at the protest but had lawful permits to carry the firearms, according to court documents. Federal law enforcement agents confront demonstrators protesting outside of an immigrant processing center on September 27, 2025 in Broadview, Illinois. Scott Olson/Getty Images ICE posted on X about Collins and Robledo&#x27;s arrests Monday afternoon, sharing photos of the couple and their firearms, writing &quot;they will be prosecuted and held accountable.&quot; Popular Reads Minneapolis live updates: Bovino expected to leave city on Tuesday, sources say Jan 26, 11:57 PM Winter storm live updates: Sledding accidents contribute to storm fatalities 2 hours ago Navy admiral removed by Hegseth announces run for Congress Jan 20, 7:34 PM At a news conference Monday afternoon, Illinois Gov. J.B. Pritzker said federal officers used tear gas, pepper spray, rubber bullets and flash-bang devices on protesters, journalists and bystanders in Broadview. The Trump administration is attempting to destabilize Chicago, he said. &quot;This is not about fighting crime or about public safety. This is about sowing fear and intimidation and division among Americans. It was about creating a pretext to send armed military troops into our communities. This is about consolidating power in Donald Trump&#x27;s hands,&quot; Pritzker said. Federal law enforcement agents confront demonstrators protesting outside of an immigrant processing center on September 27, 2025 in Broadview, Illinois. Scott Olson/Getty Images A group of Chicago community groups held another news conference Sunday, lambasting ICE&#x27;s activities and increased presence in the city. MORE: ICE officer &#x27;relieved of current duties&#x27; after violent confrontation caught on camera Rep. Jesus &quot;Chuy&quot; Garcia, who represents part of Chicago in Congress, criticized ICE&#x27;s efforts to detain immigrants in the city. &quot;Today we witness the further militarization of ICE tactics in Chicago as they showed up downtown to indiscriminately continue to profile against people just because of what they look like,&quot; Garcia said. MORE: Deadly shooting at Dallas ICE facility follows trend of sniper-type incidents: Experts Chicago Mayor Brandon Johnson posted on X Sunday afternoon, saying, &quot;This is another brazen provocation from the Trump administration that does nothing to make our city safer.&quot; Related Topics Immigration Chicago Sponsored Content by Taboola Popular Reads Minneapolis live updates: Bovino expected to leave city on Tuesday, sources say Jan 26, 11:57 PM Navy admiral removed by Hegseth announces run for Congress Jan 20, 7:34 PM Winter storm live updates: Sledding accidents contribute to storm fatalities 2 hours ago What we know about Alex Pretti, VA nurse killed by federal agent in Minneapolis Jan 24, 9:46 PM ABC News Live 24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events ABC News Network Privacy Policy Your US State Privacy Rights Children&#x27;s Online Privacy Policy Interest-Based Ads About Nielsen Measurement Terms of Use Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Contact Us © 2026 ABC News