Title: Police arrest clergy members staging anti-ICE protest at MSP airport
Authors: Https, Www.Facebook.Com Bringmethenews, Adam Uren
Published: 2026-01-23 18:50:05+00:00

Arrests were made outside Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport on Friday during a protest led by local clergy members against ongoing ICE operations in Minnesota.

Organizers of the protest, part of wider "Day of Truth and Freedom" economic blackout against ICE operations in Minnesota, claim "around 100 clergy members" were arrested by officers from MSP airport and Bloomington police departments.

A group of clergy members started the demonstration outside the entrance to Terminal 1 departures at around 10 a.m., seeking to to call on airline companies – "particularly Delta and Signature Aviation" – to call on ICE to end its surge in Minnesota.

Footage shared by ICE Out of Minnesota showed that eventually, police officers started leading away clergy members as they prayed and chanted in protest outside departures.

ICE Out of MN said: "Clergy members prayed together, sang songs and hymns, and shared stories of those who have been abducted by ICE while at work or commuting to and from the airport. During this program, roughly 100 clergy were arrested by members of the airport and Bloomington law enforcement."

ICE Out of MN

The Metropolitan Airports Commission confirmed that around 100 arrests were made, saying it had worked with organizers in advance "to best accommodate their right to freedom of expression while also ensuring uninterrupted operations at MSP Airport."

"The approved demonstration permit set a dedicated location and maximum number of participants to maintain the safety of protestors, passengers and airport employees," a MAC spokesperson said.

"When the permitted activity went beyond the agreed-upon terms, MSP Airport Police began taking necessary action, including arrests, to protect public safety, airport security and access to Terminal 1."

Those arrested were charged and released from custody, having been issued misdemeanor citations for trespassing and failure to comply with a peace officer.

MSP airport has been a target for scrutiny from ICE protesters over the past month, as it hosts airlines chartered by the Trump administration to transfer Minnesota residents arrested by ICE to detention facilities across the country.

Major Minnesota employers have been criticized for their silence in response to the increasingly controversial tactics employed by federal agents, with the majority of Friday's economic blackout protest led by small business owners and community organizations.