ICE Out protests in MN: Arrests at MSP Airport, dispersal order at Whipple | FOX 9 Minneapolis-St. Paul Live News Weather Sports Things to Do Contests More Watch Live Expand / Collapse search ☰ Search site News Local News National News World News Investigators Politics Consumer FOX News Sunday Weather FOX 9 Weather App Forecast School Closings Live Weather Cameras Traffic FOX Weather Sports Vikings Gophers Twins Wild Timberwolves Lynx United Aurora Morning Shayne Wells Garden Guy Recipes Money Personal Finance Business Stock Market Small Business Savings Shows FOX Shows The Jason Show FOX 9 Good Day All Day Enough Said Vikings Gameday Live The PJ Fleck Show FOX 9 Sports Now Taste Buds The Afternoon Shift The Jason Show Swag Shop The FOX 9 Store Regional News Milwaukee News - FOX 6 News Chicago News - FOX 32 Chicago Detroit News - FOX 2 Detroit About Us Contact Us Contests Personalities Jobs at FOX 9 What's On FOX Advertise FCC Public File FCC Applications Stay Connected How to stream FOX LOCAL Mobile Newsletter Facebook Instagram Twitter TikTok YouTube ICE Out protests in MN: Arrests at MSP Airport, dispersal order at Whipple By FOX 9 Staff Published January 23, 2026 1:32pm CST Minneapolis ICE shooting FOX 9 Share Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Reddit ICE protests: Arrests at MSP Airport; dispersal orders at Whipple There are reports of arrests at MSP Airport on Friday, where anti-ICE protesters were demonstrating. Protesters were also given dispersal orders outside the Whipple Federal Building. This comes amid a surge of federal immigration officers in the Twin Cities. The Brief Arrests have been reported after a protest at MSP Airport on Friday morning. Dispersal orders were also given at a protest outside the Whipple Federal Building. This comes on a day activists are calling "ICE Out of Minnesota: A Day of Truth and Freedom," in which people are encouraging Minnesotans not to go to work, school or go shopping. MINNEAPOLIS (FOX 9) - People were arrested during a protest at Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport on Friday morning, and dispersal orders were given at the Whipple Federal Building after protesters blocked an access road.&#xA0; Activists are encouraging Minnesotans not to go to work , school or go shopping on Friday as they call for ICE to leave Minnesota. Hundreds of businesses are closed on Friday to show solidarity with those impacted by ICE&apos;s Operation Metro Surge. A march and rally are being held Friday afternoon in downtown Minneapolis as part of what activists are calling &quot;ICE Out of Minnesota: A Day of Truth and Freedom.&quot; READ MORE: LIVE UPDATES | ICE in MN: Businesses closed for &apos;ICE Out&apos; strike; feds call for state cooperation Arrests at MSP Airport anti-ICE protest Anti-ICE protesters gathered outside MSP Airport Protesters gathered outside MSP Airport on Friday, Jan. 23, to protest ICE and the Metropolitan Airport Commission working with federal authorities on deportation flights. What we know: Clergy members held a protest on Friday at MSP Airport on Friday morning. They were calling on airlines to stand with Minnesotans and call for ICE to leave the state.&#xA0; FOX 9 has confirmed that the peaceful protest concluded around noon on Friday, with MSP Airport Police arresting approximately 100 people who were charged and released from custody. Those arrested were issued misdemeanor citations for trespassing and failure to comply with a peace officer, according to a Metropolitan Airport Commission (MAC) spokesperson. The Metropolitan Airports Commission told FOX 9 it &quot;worked in advance with event organizers to best accommodate their right to freedom of expression while also ensuring uninterrupted&#xA0;operations&#xA0;at MSP&#xA0;Airport. The approved demonstration permit set a dedicated location and maximum number of participants to&#xA0;maintain&#xA0;the safety of protesters,&#xA0;passengers&#xA0;and airport employees.&#xA0;&#xA0; &quot;When the permitted activity went beyond the agreed-upon terms,&#xA0;MSP Airport Police&#xA0;began taking&#xA0;necessary action, including arrests, to protect public safety,&#xA0;airport&#xA0;security&#xA0;and&#xA0;access to Terminal 1.&quot; Ahead of Friday morning&apos;s protest, airlines were encouraging travelers to get to the airport at least three hours before their flight due to planned demonstrations outside the airport.&#xA0; Dispersal orders at Whipple Federal Building after ice chunks thrown Local perspective: Meanwhile, the Hennepin County Sheriff&apos;s Office on Friday gave dispersal orders to a crowd of protesters at the Whipple Federal Building, which has been the focal point for protesters in the weeks following the fatal shooting of Renee Good by an ICE officer on Jan. 7.&#xA0; According to social media posts from the sheriff&apos;s office around 12:30 p.m. Friday: &quot;Hennepin County Sheriff&apos;s Office deputies and members of multiple assisting agencies have given dispersal orders for an unlawful protest at the Whipple Building.&#xA0; &quot;Deputies have been on the ground for the last few hours and made several attempts to ask protesters to unblock an access road. The group was clear that they will not unblock the road. Deputies have explained what will happen if they do not comply with the lawful orders. We&apos;ve given them time to move.&#xA0; &quot;There have been ice chunks thrown at multiple vehicles, breaking windows. Deputies have given three dispersal orders for an unlawful protest. Individuals who do not comply with orders and those who continue unlawful behavior have been and will continue to be arrested. Please avoid the area.&quot; This is a developing story. Check back for updates. The Source This story uses information from protest organizers, airport officials and the Hennepin County Sheriff's Office. Minneapolis ICE shooting Immigration ICE in Minnesota Your rights if ICE shows up at your door Is Minnesota cooperating with ICE? What we know ICE says it’s illegal to record agents, but is DHS policy actually unlawful? ICE head must appear in court to address why detainees were denied due process: Judge LIVE UPDATES | ICE in Minnesota: Some federal agents expected to leave as immigration leadership shifts Venezuelan family released, Justice Department officials apologize after St. Paul raid Memorial ride for Alex Pretti planned by Minneapolis bike shop Source: Border Patrol Commander Gregory Bovino demoted amid fallout from Minnesota shootings Greg Bovino to return to 'old job' in El Centro, California after Alex Pretti shooting: Reports Women charged with biting Border Patrol agents’ fingers following Alex Pretti shooting Trending Minneapolis ICE shooting: Renee Good's death ruled homicide by Hennepin Co. Medical Examiner Records undercut ICE claims that MN jails, prisons release 'worst of the worst' Minneapolis shooting: Border Patrol fatally shoots Alex Pretti; witness video conflicts DHS Minneapolis shooting: What we know about Alex Pretti, the man killed by Border Patrol agent Minneapolis shooting: Video shows Border Patrol agent fatally shoot man Daily Newsletter All the news you need to know, every day By clicking Sign Up, I confirm that I have read and agree to the Privacy Policy and Terms of Service . More Minnesota News View More ICE head must appear in court to address why detainees were denied due process: Judge LIVE UPDATES | ICE in Minnesota: Some federal agents expected to leave as immigration leadership shifts Venezuelan family released, Justice Department officials apologize after St. Paul raid Greg Bovino to return to 'old job' in El Centro, California after Alex Pretti shooting: Reports ICE in Minnesota: Bovino, Border Patrol agents to leave Minnesota 'imminently' FOX LOCAL Watch FOX 9 for free on FOX LOCAL Watch local news, weather, and live events on Roku, Fire TV, and more — just search “FOX LOCAL” News Local News National News World News Investigators Politics Consumer FOX News Sunday Weather FOX 9 Weather App Forecast School Closings Live Weather Cameras Traffic FOX Weather Sports Vikings Gophers Twins Wild Timberwolves Lynx United Aurora Morning Shayne Wells Garden Guy Recipes Money Personal Finance Business Stock Market Small Business Savings Shows FOX Shows The Jason Show FOX 9 Good Day All Day Enough Said Vikings Gameday Live The PJ Fleck Show FOX 9 Sports Now Taste Buds The Afternoon Shift The Jason Show Swag Shop The FOX 9 Store Regional News Milwaukee News - FOX 6 News Chicago News - FOX 32 Chicago Detroit News - FOX 2 Detroit About Us Contact Us Contests Personalities Jobs at FOX 9 What's On FOX Advertise FCC Public File FCC Applications Stay Connected How to stream FOX LOCAL Mobile Newsletter Facebook Instagram Twitter TikTok YouTube facebook twitter email New Privacy Policy Updated Terms of Use Your Privacy Choices FCC Public File EEO Public File Jobs at FOX 9 Contact Us This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2026 FOX Television Stations