ICE Launches ‘Operation Midway Blitz’ With Immigration Raids In Chicago Real Chicago stories start in your neighborhood Get a daily digest of stories from all neighborhoods across Chicago. On Sundays, you'll get our reporters’ best of the week, highlighting the people and places that make our neighborhoods home. Sign up Real Chicago stories start in your neighborhood Get a daily digest of stories from all neighborhoods across Chicago. On Sundays, you'll get our reporters’ best of the week, highlighting the people and places that make our neighborhoods home. Sign up Real Chicago stories start in your neighborhood Get a daily digest of stories from all neighborhoods across Chicago. On Sundays, you'll get our reporters’ best of the week, highlighting the people and places that make our neighborhoods home. Sign up Close SUBSCRIBE Sign In Search for: Search Latest Stories Neighborhoods Open dropdown menu Austin, Garfield Park, North Lawndale Belmont Cragin, Hermosa Beverly, Mount Greenwood, Morgan Park Bridgeport, Chinatown, McKinley Park Open dropdown menu Gage Park, Brighton Park McKinley Park Bronzeville, Near South Side Downtown Open dropdown menu Loop River North, Gold Coast, Near North Side South Loop West Loop Edgebrook, Edison Park, Sauganash Englewood, Chatham, Auburn Gresham Open dropdown menu Ashburn Hyde Park, Woodlawn, South Shore Jefferson Park, Portage Park, Norwood Park Open dropdown menu O&#8217;Hare Lakeview, Wrigleyville, Northalsted Open dropdown menu Roscoe Village Lincoln Park, Old Town Lincoln Square, North Center, Irving Park Open dropdown menu Albany Park Ravenswood Logan Square, Humboldt Park, Avondale Midway, West Lawn Pilsen, Little Village, Back of the Yards Open dropdown menu Back of the Yards Roseland, Pullman South Chicago, East Side Open dropdown menu Hegewisch Uptown, Edgewater, Rogers Park Open dropdown menu Andersonville Wicker Park, Bucktown, West Town Arts &#038; Culture Investigations Podcasts Newsletters Donate Shop Open dropdown menu Merch Photos Facebook Page Instagram Twitter Bluesky Threads TikTok Close Search Latest Stories Neighborhoods Austin, Garfield Park, North Lawndale Belmont Cragin, Hermosa Beverly, Mount Greenwood, Morgan Park Bridgeport, Chinatown, McKinley Park Gage Park, Brighton Park McKinley Park Bronzeville, Near South Side Downtown Loop River North, Gold Coast, Near North Side South Loop West Loop Edgebrook, Edison Park, Sauganash Englewood, Chatham, Auburn Gresham Ashburn Hyde Park, Woodlawn, South Shore Jefferson Park, Portage Park, Norwood Park O&#8217;Hare Lakeview, Wrigleyville, Northalsted Roscoe Village Lincoln Park, Old Town Lincoln Square, North Center, Irving Park Albany Park Ravenswood Logan Square, Humboldt Park, Avondale Midway, West Lawn Pilsen, Little Village, Back of the Yards Back of the Yards Roseland, Pullman South Chicago, East Side Hegewisch Uptown, Edgewater, Rogers Park Andersonville Wicker Park, Bucktown, West Town Arts &#038; Culture Investigations Podcasts Newsletters Donate Shop Merch Photos Our Mission Board of Directors Our Team Contact Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Skip to content Menu Facebook Page Instagram Twitter Bluesky Threads TikTok Block Club Chicago Your Neighborhood News Site SUBSCRIBE Sign In Open Search Search for: Search SUBSCRIBE Menu Sign In Latest Stories Neighborhoods Open dropdown menu Austin, Garfield Park, North Lawndale Belmont Cragin, Hermosa Beverly, Mount Greenwood, Morgan Park Bridgeport, Chinatown, McKinley Park Open dropdown menu Gage Park, Brighton Park McKinley Park Bronzeville, Near South Side Downtown Open dropdown menu Loop River North, Gold Coast, Near North Side South Loop West Loop Edgebrook, Edison Park, Sauganash Englewood, Chatham, Auburn Gresham Open dropdown menu Ashburn Hyde Park, Woodlawn, South Shore Jefferson Park, Portage Park, Norwood Park Open dropdown menu O&#8217;Hare Lakeview, Wrigleyville, Northalsted Open dropdown menu Roscoe Village Lincoln Park, Old Town Lincoln Square, North Center, Irving Park Open dropdown menu Albany Park Ravenswood Logan Square, Humboldt Park, Avondale Midway, West Lawn Pilsen, Little Village, Back of the Yards Open dropdown menu Back of the Yards Roseland, Pullman South Chicago, East Side Open dropdown menu Hegewisch Uptown, Edgewater, Rogers Park Open dropdown menu Andersonville Wicker Park, Bucktown, West Town Arts &#038; Culture Investigations Podcasts Newsletters Donate Shop Open dropdown menu Merch Photos Topics Business Block Club Eats LGBTQ+ News Weather Things To Do Openings &#038; Closings Neighborhood Maps Posted in Citywide ICE Launches ‘Operation Midway Blitz’ With Immigration Raids In Chicago The operation will target undocumented people in Chicago and Illinois, the Trump administration announced. Leaders gathered on the Southwest Side Monday to denounce the tactics. by Quinn Myers and Francia Garcia Hernandez September 8, 2025 September 9, 2025 Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Credibility: Original Reporting On the Ground Sources Cited Original Reporting This article contains new, firsthand information uncovered by its reporter(s). This includes directly interviewing sources and research/analysis of primary source documents. On the Ground Indicates that a Newsmaker/Newsmakers was/were physically present to report the article from some/all of the location(s) it concerns. Sources Cited As a news piece, this article cites verifiable, third-party sources which have all been thoroughly fact-checked and deemed credible by the Newsroom. Federal agents — including ICE, ERO and HSI, detain several people at the Intensive Supervision Appearance Program office, 2245 S. Michigan Ave., in South Loop on June 4, 2025. Credit: Sebastián Hidalgo for Block Club Chicago CHICAGO — The expected surge in federal immigration raids has officially started in Chicago and the surrounding area, President Donald Trump&#8217;s administration announced Monday. The effort, known as &#8220;Operation Midway Blitz,&#8221; will target undocumented people both in Chicago and the state of Illinois, according to a press release issued Monday by the Department of Homeland Security, which oversees Immigration and Customs Enforcement, known as ICE. A new round of targeted immigration enforcement operations has been expected for weeks, with federal agents — who are staying&nbsp; at the Great Lakes naval base north of the city&nbsp;— likely to&nbsp; focus on making immigration arrests and conducting raids &nbsp;in and around Chicago&nbsp; for more than a month . Listen 🎧 Meet The ICE Resistance &#8212; Cameras, Whistles, And Neighborhood Rapid Response Teams Episode play icon Meet The ICE Resistance &#8212; Cameras, Whistles, And Neighborhood Rapid Response Teams Load More Search Results placeholder Previous Episode Show Episodes List Next Episode Trump has also said he is considering sending the National Guard to the city, though it is unclear if and when that might happen. &#8220;This ICE operation will target the criminal illegal aliens who flocked to Chicago and Illinois because they knew Governor Pritzker and his&nbsp;sanctuary policies would protect them and allow them to roam free on American streets,&#8221; the Homeland Security press release said. Illinois, Cook County and Chicago all have so-called &#8220;sanctuary&#8221; laws in place that bar law enforcement from assisting or coordinating with federal immigration enforcement operations. Gov. JB Pritzker and Mayor Brandon Johnson have stressed that officers do turn over offenders to ICE if they have a criminal warrant. The operation announcement Monday comes as immigration agents detained three people on the Southwest Side over the weekend , according to an alderperson and local community group. The arrests, and reports of immigration agents on the Southwest Side, signaled the start of the operation to neighbors and immigrant activists, they said Monday. “This has been happening, but what we’re seeing today is an escalation,” said&nbsp;Rey Wences, senior director of deportation defense for the Illinois Coalition of Immigrant and Refugee Rights. Among those arrested Sunday were a &#8220;flower vendor known to all of us,&#8221; who was detained while working, Ald. Jeylú Gutiérrez (14th) said at a press conference Monday afternoon. Organizers&nbsp;said&nbsp;they’re&nbsp;continuing to receive a large volume of calls and are responding to reports of arrests. &#8220;Others were detained while waiting for the bus or simply walking in the sidewalk,&#8221; Gutiérrez said. &#8220;These was never about arresting the worst of the worst. It&#8217;s been about terrorizing our communities. But we will not be intimidated.&#8221; Any Huamani, a member of the Southwest Side rapid response network and Brighton Park Neighborhood Council organizer, speaks at a press conference denouncing immigration arrests, signaling the start of &#8220;Operation Midway Blitz,&#8221; as seen on Sept. 8, 2025. Credit: Francia Garcia Hernandez/Block Club Chicago an ICE van sits outside the Cook County Courthouse, 2600 S. California Ave., on Monday, Sept. 8, 2025. Credit: Charles Thrush/Block Club Chicago ICE agents were also seen Monday in the Cook County Courthouse complex, 2600 S. California Ave. An ICE van was parked outside the courthouse to gather b-roll for a Fox News ride-along, a spokesperson for Immigration and Customs Enforcement confirmed to Block Club. The Homeland Security press release shared few details about the scope of the immigration enforcement operation aimed at the Chicago area. It did list about a dozen people it said were the &#8220;worst of the worst criminal illegal aliens&#8221; who had gone free due to &#8220;sanctuary&#8221; policies from government agencies including the Cook County Jail. &#8220;President Trump and Secretary [Kristi] Noem have a clear message: no city is a safe haven for criminal illegal aliens. If you come to our country illegally and break our laws, we will hunt you down, arrest you, deport you, and you will never return,&#8221; Tricia McLaughlin, the department&#8217;s assistant secretary for public affairs, said in the release. A Cook County Sheriff&#8217;s Office spokesperson said it follows state and local law when it comes to turning individuals over to immigration enforcement. &#8220;The Sheriff’s Office has always honored and will continue to honor criminal arrest warrants signed by a judge that authorize federal immigration authorities to take custody of individuals held at the Cook County Jail,&#8221; the statement reads. &#8220;State law prohibits us from honoring administrative detainers and other non-enforceable documents.&#8221; The city received no notice of the immigration operation that is now underway, Johnson said in a statement. “We are concerned about potential militarized immigration enforcement without due process because of ICE’s track record of detaining and deporting American citizens and violating the human rights of hundreds of detainees,&#8217; the mayor said in the statement. &#8220;Because of these incidents and more, we remain opposed to militarized immigration enforcement that runs afoul of the Constitution in our city.&#8221; Gov. JB Pritzker looks on while Mayor Brandon Johnson speaks during a press conference in response to President Trump’s threats to deploy military in Chicago on Aug. 25, 2025. Credit: Colin Boyle/Block Club Chicago Police Supt. Larry Snelling told reporters last month that his officers would continue to abide by the Welcoming City ordinance, a sanctuary policy prohibiting local law enforcement from aiding federal immigration enforcement operations. &#8220;If we know that it&#8217;s only immigration enforcement going on, our officers will not be in those areas assisting in any way when it comes to immigration enforcement,&#8221; Snelling said at the Aug. 28 briefing. &#8220;So we do not assist, but at the same time, I want to be clear, we also do not engage in a way where we&#8217;re obstructing federal agents. We do not interfere with the work that they&#8217;re doing, but we will not engage in immigration enforcement.&#8221; Federal agents could target Mexican Independence Day celebrations in mid-September, Pritzker said at a press conference on Tuesday . El Grito, a popular festival celebrating the holiday set for this weekend, was subsequently postponed . “Know your rights, film things that you see happening in your neighborhoods and your streets and share them with the news media. Authoritarians thrive on your silence. Be loud for America. … I refuse to pretend that any of this is normal,” Pritzker said. Organizers urged neighbors to record and report ICE arrests, so advocates can denounce if agents make unlawful arrests. Information about resources for undocumented Chicagoans and all neighbors can be found here . “Chicago will not be terrorized to fear. We stand united, especially here in the southwest side,” state Rep. Aaron Ortiz said at Monday&#8217;s press conference on the Southwest Side. Protesters march along Michigan Avenue during a protest against immigration raids in Chicago on Saturday, Sept. 6, 2025. Credit: Talia Sprague/Block Club Chicago ICE’s plans for Chicago have unfolded in concert with Trump openly discussing sending National Guard troops and federal agents to Chicago to fight what his administration has called a rise in violent crime that has not been borne out in local and federal law enforcement data. Over the weekend, Trump inflamed his threats of federal deployment to Chicago when he posted to social media an AI-generated image that referenced the 1979 film “Apocalypse Now” and said “Chicago about find out why it’s called the Department of WAR.” The President of the United States is threatening to go to war with an American city. This is not a joke. This is not normal. Donald Trump isn&#39;t a strongman, he&#39;s a scared man. Illinois won’t be intimidated by a wannabe dictator. pic.twitter.com/f87Zek7Cqb &mdash; Governor JB Pritzker (@GovPritzker) September 6, 2025 The post coincided with the rebranding of the Defense Department to the Department of War. The president, however, appeared to walk back those comments on Sunday, calling it &#8220;fake news&#8221; despite his direct references to war in Chicago in his social media post. “We’re not going to war, we’re going to clean up our cities. We’re going to clean them up so they don’t kill five people every weekend. That’s not war. That’s common sense,&#8221;&nbsp; Trump told reporters .&nbsp; Charles Thrush contributed reporting. Support Local News! Subscribe to Block Club Chicago , an independent, 501(c)(3), journalist-run newsroom. Every dime we make funds reporting from Chicago’s neighborhoods. Already subscribe?&nbsp; Click here to gift a subscription , or you can support Block Club with a tax-deductible donation. Listen to the Block Club Chicago podcast: Listen On Apple Podcasts Listen On Spotify Is There Any Way Out Of Chicago&#8217;s Horrible Parking Meter Deal? Episode play icon Is There Any Way Out Of Chicago&#8217;s Horrible Parking Meter Deal? Episode play icon The 28-Year-Old Breaking Birding Records In Chicago Episode play icon Good. Better. Best. Grater &#8212; The Bears’ Wild Ride Continues Episode play icon As Crime Rates Fall, Domestic Homicides Are Surging In Chicago. Why? Episode play icon Bears. Packers. Grate night? Or Does The Pack Still Own Da Bears? UPDATE: DAAAAAAAAA BEARS Load More Search Results placeholder Previous Episode Show Episodes List Next Episode Show Podcast Information Quinn Myers quinn@blockclubchi.org Twitter @rquinnmyers More by Quinn Myers Post navigation Previous Bob Newhart Gets A Block Named After Him In Edgewater Next Chicago Bears Double Down On Plan To Leave Soldier Field For Arlington Heights Community Send News Tips FAQ/Help About Us Our Team Board of Directors Free Text Alerts Staff Diversity Report 2024 Annual Report Support Us! Donate to Block Club Chicago More Ways to Give Manage My Account Advertise Our Supporters Jobs Media Kit EIN: 82-3844275 Block Club Chicago is a nonprofit news organization dedicated to delivering reliable, nonpartisan and essential coverage of Chicago’s diverse neighborhoods. &copy; 2026 Block Club Chicago Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook Page Instagram Twitter Bluesky Threads TikTok Sign in Close Enter the code sent to your email. Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Create an account Sign in to an existing account Go back Continue Set a password (optional) Terms of Service . Sign up for newsletters Close Get the best of Block Club Chicago directly in your email inbox. Sending to: Citywide Morning Newsletter A daily digest of the top news from across all neighborhoods of Chicago: our best coverage from every corner of the city and the most important stories for all residents and guests. Continue Gift this article Close Link Copy link