ICE Launches Operation Midway Blitz in Honor of Katie Abraham to Target Criminal Illegal Aliens Terrorizing Americans in Sanctuary Illinois | Homeland Security Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here’s how you know Here’s how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( Lock A locked padlock ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. Countdown to America's 250th Anniversary! 162 Days 5 Hours 47 Minutes info 2026 winter storm resources: One-stop shop for information, resources and tips on how to stay safe during and after the winter storm. Menu Enter Search Term Topics Topics Topics Border Security Citizenship and Immigration Cybersecurity Disasters Election Security Homeland Security Enterprise Human Trafficking Immigration and Customs Enforcement Preventing Terrorism and Targeted Violence Resilience Science and Technology Trade and Economic Security Transportation Security News News News All DHS News Apps Blog Comunicados de Prensa Data Events Fact Sheets Featured News Homeland Security LIVE Media Contacts Media Library National Terrorism Advisory System Press Releases Publications Library Social Media Speeches Subscribe Testimony In Focus In Focus In Focus 2025 - The Year In Review Worst of the Worst CBP Home Cybersecurity Fentanyl Independent Review of 2024 Attempted Assassination Making America Safe Again How Do I? How Do I? How Do I? Alphabetical Listing At DHS For Businesses For Travelers For the Public Get Involved Get Involved Get Involved Blue Campaign If You See Something, Say Something® Know2Protect Nationwide SAR Initiative Ready.gov Secure Our World US Coast Guard Auxiliary About DHS About DHS About DHS Budget &amp; Performance Contact Us Employee Resources History Homeland Security Careers In Memoriam Laws &amp; Regulations Leadership Mission Organization Site Links Breadcrumb Home News Press Releases ICE Launches Operation Midway Blitz in Honor of Katie Abraham to Target Criminal Illegal Aliens Terrorizing Americans in Sanctuary Illinois News All DHS News Apps Blog Comunicados de Prensa Data Events Fact Sheets Featured News Homeland Security LIVE Media Contacts Media Library National Terrorism Advisory System Press Releases Publications Library Academic Engagement Border Security Citizenship And Immigration Services Ombudsman Citizenship and Immigration Services Civil Rights and Civil Liberties Cybersecurity Disasters Do Business with DHS Election Security Homeland Security Careers Homeland Security Enterprise Human Trafficking Immigration and Customs Enforcement Intelligence and Analysis International Engagement Law Enforcement National Terrorism Advisory System Preventing Terrorism and Targeted Violence Privacy REAL ID Resilience Science and Technology Trade and Economic Security Transportation Security Weapons of Mass Destruction Social Media Speeches Subscribe Testimony ICE Launches Operation Midway Blitz in Honor of Katie Abraham to Target Criminal Illegal Aliens Terrorizing Americans in Sanctuary Illinois Release Date: September 8, 2025 Thanks to Governor Pritzker’s sanctuary policies, TdA gang members, rapists, kidnappers, and drug traffickers are being released onto Chicago’s streets CHICAGO – Today, the Department of Homeland Security announced Operation Midway Blitz in honor of Katie Abraham who was killed in a drunk driving hit-and-run car wreck caused by criminal illegal alien Julio Cucul-Bol in Illinois. This ICE operation will target the criminal illegal aliens who flocked to Chicago and Illinois because they knew Governor Pritzker and his&nbsp;sanctuary policies would protect them and allow them to roam free on American streets. Image "DHS is launching Operation Midway Blitz in honor of Katie Abraham who was killed in Illinois by a criminal illegal alien who should have never been in our country. This operation will target the worst of the worst criminal illegal aliens in Chicago,”&nbsp; said Assistant Secretary Tricia McLaughlin . “For years, Governor Pritzker and his fellow sanctuary politicians released Tren de Aragua gang members, rapists, kidnappers, and drug traffickers on Chicago’s streets—putting American lives at risk and making Chicago a magnet for criminals. President Trump and Secretary Noem have a clear message: no city is a safe haven for criminal illegal aliens. If you come to our country illegally and break our laws, we will hunt you down, arrest you, deport you, and you will never return.” &nbsp; Below are just a handful of the worst of the worst criminal illegal aliens—including gang members, drug traffickers, kidnappers, and rapists—who were RELEASED back on to Illinois streets because of Governor Pritzker’s sanctuary policies. These criminal illegal aliens remain at large. Image Gabriel J Valle Galvez , a 47-year-old criminal illegal alien from Mexico, with convictions for battery, aggravated assault, DUI, trespassing, criminal damage to property, public indecency, violation of order of protection, and multiple assaults. Valle Galvez has been identified as a Latin King gang member . ICE lodged arrest detainers twelve separate times. Each time Cook County Jail did not honor the detainer and released him. Image Javier Carmelo Casillas Gomez , a 46-year-old criminal illegal alien from Mexico, with convictions for procuring prostitution, domestic violence/assault, drug possession, and an active warrant for drug manufacturing . ICE lodged an arrest detainer, with Cook County Jail. Image Victor Manuel Gomez-Atilano , a 45-year-old criminal illegal alien from Mexico, with prior deportations and convictions for aggravated unlawful use of a weapon . ICE lodged an arrest detainer with the Illinois Department of Corrections. He was released despite the ICE arrest detainer. Image Ricardo Salas Muro , a 41-year-old criminal illegal alien from Mexico with convictions for burglary and drug possession . He was released multiple times despite ICE detainers lodged by ICE Chicago. Image Dany Daniel Hernandez Colina , a 27-year-old criminal illegal alien from Venezuela and Tren de Aragua gang member with repeat arrests for burglary and shoplifting . An immigration judge issued an order of removal for Colina in 2024, but he was released after Cook County Jail failed to honor the ICE detainer. Image Carlos Johendy Gonzales Montero , a 36-year-old criminal illegal alien from Venezuela and Tren de Aragua gang member with charges for reckless conduct, aggravated assault with a weapon, and armed violence.&nbsp; This gang member&nbsp;was released after Cook County Jail ignored ICE detainers. Image Oscar Remirez Vences, a 30-year-old criminal illegal alien from Mexico and member of the Two Six gang with convictions for aggravated unlawful use of a weapon and domestic battery . Cook County Jail did not honor the ICE detainer and released him.&nbsp; Image Frankismar Oliveira-Infante , a 39-year-old criminal illegal alien from Venezuela with convictions for aggravated unlawful use of a weapon and aggravated assault . He’s considered armed and dangerous after Cook County Jail failed to honor detainer. Image Rutilo Uriostegui Mojica , a 28-year-old criminal illegal alien from Mexico, with convictions for illegal reentry, drug possession, and multiple DUIs&nbsp; was released despite an ICE detainer. Image Pedro Enrique Colmenares Gonzalez , a 34-year-old criminal illegal alien from Venezuela and Tren De Aragua gangmember with a past criminal history of aggravated unlawful use of a weapon, sexual assault, domestic battery, and kidnapping. He was released multiple times despite ICE lodging a detainer. Image Abdul Raza Al Kaby , a 60-year-old criminal illegal alien from&nbsp;Iraq, with convictions for felonious assault, assault with a deadly weapon, and murder/intent to kill . Al Kaby had an order for removal by an immigration judge in 1997 but was repeatedly released from Illinois jails despite ICE detainers. Topics Law Enforcement Immigration and Customs Enforcement Keywords Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Alien Crime Illegal Immigration Enforcement Law Enforcement Tren de Aragua Victims of Crime Worst of the Worst Last Updated: 09/25/2025 Was this page helpful? Yes No This page was not helpful because the content has too little information has too much information is confusing is out-of-date Return to top Topics News In Focus How Do I? Get Involved About DHS DHS.gov An official website of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security About DHS Accessibility Budget and Performance DHS Components FOIA Requests No FEAR Act Data Privacy Policy Site Links Vulnerability Disclosure Program Office of Inspector General The White House USA.gov Looking for U.S. government information and services? Visit USA.gov