Title: Protests against ICE in NYC turn violent, end with dozens of arrests
Authors: Elijah, Elijah Westbrook, Elijah Westbrook Is An Emmy Award-Winning Journalist. He Joined Cbs News New York In January, Read Full Bio, Ali, Ali Bauman Is A New York Emmy, Edward R. Murrow Award-Winning Journalist Who Has Been A General Assignment Reporter For Cbs News New York Since Spring, Allen, Allen Devlin Joined The Cbs News New York Team In September, Is Excited To Once Again Call New York City Home.

Protests in Manhattan turned violent Tuesday as thousands rallied against recent U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement raids and in support of demonstrations in Los Angeles.

Dozens of people were taken into custody and some protesters remained on city streets late Tuesday night.

"I am here to speak up"

Things started off peacefully Tuesday afternoon as the rally drew a crowd to Foley Square.

"We're here to say that we want full rights for all immigrants. We want to stop the raids and the deportations, and get the National Guard and the military out of L.A.," one protester said.

"If we don't have political rights, if we don't have the right to peacefully assemble, to address our grievances without getting the National Guard sent to us, then nothing else really matters," protester Yari Osorio said.

"I might end up getting arrested today, hopefully not. I'm not here to fight. I'm here to protest. I am here to speak up. There's a lot of people that are afraid and we shouldn't be afraid," another said.

"I feel upset, I feel angry and impotent, because I wish I could have like a magic wand and change everything, but I just can't," another added.

Jaime Gonzalez, who emigrated from Mexico 40 years ago, brought his daughters to the protest.

"I'm grateful to this country, but I need to speak up," he said. "I'm not a freeloader. I came here to work."

Protesters later marched over to the federal immigration court offices, where New York City Police officers tried to keep them behind barricades, but the situation was tense.

Police were seen taking several people into custody. The crowd at times wrestled with officers who pulled protesters to the ground.

"If New York City stands up, if the country stands up, it doesn't matter how many National Guard troops they have, we can peacefully stand up and resist," Osorio said.

Police said demonstrators threw bottles at officers and threw cones into roadways. Of the 86 people taken into custody, 52 were issued summonses and 34 were arrested on charges including disorderly conduct.

Mayor Eric Adams reiterates calls for peaceful protests

Some protests also led to police involvement Monday. At Trump Tower, 24 people were taken into custody during a sit-in. All were given court summonses for criminal trespass and disorderly conduct before being released. At Federal Plaza, seven people were taken into custody. Four of them were issued court summonses and three were arrested and charged.

"It just feels really important to stand up for the importance of legal due process, the rights of habeas corpus and our constitutional freedoms in this country," protester B.C. Craig said.

With tensions rising nationwide, and coming to a head in Los Angeles with National Guard and U.S. Marine Corps. deployments, New York City Mayor Eric Adams on Tuesday reiterated his calls for peaceful protests, while also addressing public safety in the coming days.

"If it ever reaches the level of something that we can't manage, I spoke to the governor yesterday and said whatever, we're joined at the hip, to make sure that it's going to be safe," Adams said. "If there is ever a need, we'll sit down and we'll find a way to give the reinforcement."

The violence and turmoil in Los Angeles has thus far not hit New York. So does Gov. Kathy Hochul expect the National Guard here?

"Not going to speculate on hypotheticals. We trust NYPD to handle," a spokesperson for her office said.

New York congresswoman proposes legislation targeting ICE

Rep. Nydia Velazquez on Tuesday introduced a bill called "Police Not Ice" that restricts ICE agents from identifying as police -- a longstanding nationwide accusation made by the American Civil Liberties Union.

"It's about restoring public trust and protecting public safety," Velazquez said.

Read more: NYC lawmakers say they were denied access to ICE facility at Federal Plaza

Velazquez's office does not have a record of it happening in New York state, but said the bill is preventative.

"When federal immigration agents label themselves as police, it really confuses the public. It creates fear, and drives a wedge between the immigrant community and the local officers meant to protect them," Velazquez said.

Meanwhile, City Council Speaker Adrienne Adams, who is running for mayor, urged the Department of Investigations to investigate if the NYPD Has been sharing information with ICE.

"Reports that NYPD collaboration and information shared with federal agencies are being used in civil immigration proceedings are disturbing," she said in a video posted on X.

An NYPD spokesperson said in response, "The NYPD does not engage in civil immigration enforcement, period."

A spokesman for Mayor Eric Adams said, "It is despicable that Adrienne Adams would try to fan the flames of fear solely for cheap political points."