Title: ICE raid unrest: Protesters arrested for occupying Trump Tower, demanding release of detained immigrants – amNewYork
Authors: Dean Moses, About The Author, .Wp-Block-Co-Authors-Plus-Coauthors.Is-Layout-Flow, Class, Wp-Block-Co-Authors-Plus, Display Inline, .Wp-Block-Co-Authors-Plus-Avatar, Where Img, Height Auto Max-Width, Vertical-Align Bottom .Wp-Block-Co-Authors-Plus-Coauthors.Is-Layout-Flow .Wp-Block-Co-Authors-Plus-Avatar
Published: 2025-06-09 16:00:30-04:00

Police arrested a group of protesters who occupied Trump Tower on Monday after they demanded immigrants detained by ICE be returned to the community.

Police arrested a group of protesters who occupied Trump Tower on Monday while demanding that ICE release the immigrants they’ve detained in recent raids.

Organized by Rise and Resist, a group that has pushed back against President Trump since his first term in office, the demonstrators met in the lobby of Trump Tower located at 725 5th Ave. at 12:45 p.m. and brandished photos of those currently in ICE custody.

Demonstrators also held up signs reading “due process is a right for everyone ” and “ICE and DHS are violating the constitution.”

About 30 protesters stood their ground, chanting and refusing to leave the building, resulting in staff calling 911. After about a 20-minute standoff, NYPD’s Strategic Response Group responded and arrested at least 20 people. They were escorted into the back of police vans without incident.

This comes as Los Angeles sees massive unrest following ICE raids in the city, with protesters burning vehicles and authorities pelting them with rubber bullets and smoke grenades. President Trump responded by calling those pushing back against his detainments “insurrectionists.”

“Paid Insurrectionists!” He wrote on Truth Social. “Governor Gavin Newscum and “Mayor” Bass should apologize to the people of Los Angeles for the absolutely horrible job that they have done, and this now includes the ongoing L.A. riots. These are not protesters, they are troublemakers and insurrectionists. Remember, NO MASKS!”

Newsom responded by challenging authorities to try and arrest him because he stands with residents.

On the NYC side, more protests are expected to erupt this week as New Yorkers speak out against the ongoing ICE detainments.