ICE protests spread across U.S.: Over 20 arrested at Trump Tower demonstration
Manage your tracker preferences
We use cookies and similar tracking technologies to remember preferences, analyze traffic, and deliver ads. Using some kinds of trackers (like cross-site or behavioral advertising cookies)  may be considered a “sale” or “sharing” of personal data under certain state laws. You can opt in or out of these trackers below.
Targeted advertising cookies and similar trackers
On
Setting this to “off” disables targeted advertising and related trackers in your current browser. To fully opt out, you must disable tracking on each browser and device you use. Clearing cookies may reset your preferences. Because we can't link your Axios subscriber account (email) to browser cookies, you may also want to update your settings in the Privacy Center to ensure your account is fully opted out. See our Privacy Policy for more on how we use personal data and your rights.  Review our Privacy Policy at axios.com/legal for more on how we use personal data and your rights.
Save
Privacy Center
Skip to main content
Jun 10, 2025
-
Politics & Policy
Over 20 arrested at Trump Tower rally as ICE protests spread across U.S.
Rebecca Falconer
facebook (opens in new window)
twitter (opens in new window)
linkedin (opens in new window)
email (opens in new window)
sms (opens in new window)
Add Axios on Google
Add Axios as your preferred source to
see more of our stories on Google.
Add Axios on Google
NYPD officers arrest a demonstrator during an anti-ICE protest outside 26 Federal Plaza Building in New York City on Monday. Photo: Mostafa Bassim/Anadolu via Getty Images
Police in New York City arrested about two dozen protesters at
Trump
Tower in Manhattan Monday, as demonstrations against
Immigration
and Customs Enforcement (ICE) raids spread to more U.S. cities on Monday.
The big picture:
There were
reports
of arrests at other NYC ICE protests, tear gas being
deployed
in Santa Ana, California, and
Austin
Police Department on X
urged
Texas drivers to be "cautious of pedestrians" as hundreds
rallied
against federal immigration crackdowns and in solidarity with
Los Angeles demonstrators
.
The Trump Tower protesters from the Rise and Resist group are expected to be charged with trespassing, the NYPD
said
. Screenshot: Rise and Resist/
Bluesky
Masses of people also demonstrated in the Texas cities of
Dallas
, Houston and
San Antonio
, and in
Chicago
,
D.C.
,
Seattle
and elsewhere against President Trump's hardline immigration policy.
And more than
30 protests
were held
across the country
in support of
David Huerta
, president of the SEIU California union, who was arrested at a worksite immigration raid on Friday and released Monday.
Meanwhile,
protests continued for a fourth day in LA on Monday.
Trump has deployed the
U.S. Marines
and ordered the Defense Department to mobilize an additional 2,000 California National Guard members for federal service.
That takes the total number of National Guard members deployed to LA to 4,000.
Go deeper:
In photos: Marines deployed to LA on 4th day of immigration protests
facebook (opens in new window)
twitter (opens in new window)
linkedin (opens in new window)
email (opens in new window)
sms (opens in new window)
Add Axios on Google
What to read next