Brazil protests ‘inhumane’ deportations under Trump - Brazil Reports x Peru Reports Aztec Reports Argentina Reports Latin America Reports Analysis Brasil News Politics Brazil protests ‘inhumane’ deportations under Trump By Thiago Alves January 29, 2025 SHARE ON READ NEXT Xi and Lula discuss strengthening Global South ties in times of ‘international turbulence’ São Paulo, Brazil – The Brazilian government is grappling with how to address the harsh deportation measures employed by United States President Donald Trump, who has reinstated a hardline anti-immigration policy since his return to the White House in January.&nbsp; On January 24, the first deportation flight of Brazilian citizens under the renewed Trump administration landed in Manaus, the capital of the Amazonas state. Repatriation flights themselves are not new; between 2019 and 2024, the United States deported more than 7,000 Brazilians across 119 flights during the Trump and Biden administrations. What has drawn sharp criticism this time is the manner in which the deportation was carried out. The deportees arrived in Manaus shackled and chained, escorted by U.S. immigration officers, despite the fact they were already on Brazilian soil. The images sparked outrage and prompted swift action from the South American nation’s government. Brazil’s Federal Police were instructed to immediately remove the restraints, as the individuals involved were not criminals. GlobalX airplane at Manaus airport Image: Manaus City Hall For the deportees, however, the visible indignity of shackles was only the final chapter in what many described as a harrowing ordeal. The flight, which departed from Alexandria, Virginia, with 158 passengers – including 88 Brazilians – was originally scheduled to land at Confins International Airport in Minas Gerais. However mechanical issues with the GlobalX-operated aircraft altered those plans. After an unscheduled landing in Panama due to system malfunctions, the crew decided to continue with the same plane. However, a subsequent failure of the air conditioning system forced another diversion, this time to Manaus. In sweltering heat, with no air conditioning, food, or water, and still restrained, several passengers fell ill. Despite the situation, the crew attempted to proceed to Minas Gerais, only to face an even more critical emergency when the plane’s engines began emitting smoke . Emergency exits were opened, and the passengers were finally evacuated . Deportees on a Brazilian Air Force plane to travel to Minas Gerais Image: Social Media Federal Police After spending the night at Manaus Airport, the deportees were transported to Minas Gerais on Saturday afternoon aboard a Brazilian Air Force plane. Adding to the distress, several deportees alleged physical abuse and humiliation by U.S. agents , even after landing in Brazil. Some bore visible bruises, marks from tight handcuffs, and injuries they said resulted from beatings. Among the deportees was Sinval de Oliveira , 51, who had spent 35 years living in the United States. Upon his arrival in Brazil, he struggled to communicate in Portuguese, having built an entire life abroad. The Brazilian government has formally demanded explanations from U.S. authorities regarding the reported mistreatment and has called for assurances that such incidents will not be repeated. A second deportation flight of Brazilian citizens is scheduled for February 7. Whether the next group of individuals will be treated with dignity remains to be seen. SHARE ON Thiago Alves Thiago Alves is a reporter for Brazil Reports. He covers politics, economy and society for the news outlet. Thiago is also an editor at CNN Brasil, and has decades of experience working for some of the country's largest media outlets including Grupo Bandeirantes de Comunicação. You Might Also Enjoy News #NotHim: women mobilise against Bolsonaro, who they believe represents “an enormous setback for Brazil” By Sophie Foggin - September 21, 2018 Brasil News U.S. Defense Secretary kicks off South America tour in Brazil By Alex Papadovassilakis - August 14, 2018 Brasil News A stitch of hope: Brazilian prisoners who learn crotchet surprise runways By Valentina - August 21, 2018 Most Read At least 60 killed in sweeping police operation in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, police say Tornado barrels through southern Brazil ahead of COP summit Peru’s ex first lady Nadine Heredia asks Brazil court to deny extradition to Peru In Brazil, Prince William criticizes Amazon deforestation due to ‘illicit activities’ LATIN AMERICA REPORTS: THE PODCAST [podcastplayer feed_url='https://anchor.fm/s/ff80980/podcast/rss'] Work with Us Jobs @ Espacio Media Incubator 2018 Espacio Media Incubator, All Rights Reserved © All Rights Reserved.