Tincher v. Noem et al. - ACLU of Minnesota About About Us Contact Us Volunteer Board of Directors Financial Information &#038; Annual Reports Shop ACLU ACLU National Issues All Issues Abortion and Reproductive Freedom Criminal Justice Immigrants' Rights LGBTQ+ Rights Police Practices Prisoner Rights Our Work Campaigns Legislation Legal Cases News Press Releases Blog Magazines Resources Know Your Rights Justice for George Floyd Reports &#038; Studies Right to Learn Additional Resources Events Act Español Donate Donate Join About About Us Contact Us Volunteer Board of Directors Financial Information &#038; Annual Reports Shop ACLU ACLU National Issues All Issues Abortion and Reproductive Freedom Criminal Justice Immigrants' Rights LGBTQ+ Rights Police Practices Prisoner Rights Our Work Campaigns Legislation Legal Cases News Press Releases Blog Magazines Resources Know Your Rights Justice for George Floyd Reports &#038; Studies Right to Learn Additional Resources Events Act Español Donate Donate Join Donate Donate Join Court Cases Tincher v. Noem et al. Filed: December 17, 2025 Latest Update: Dec 18, 2024 Summary The ACLU of Minnesota, Ciresi Conlin, Forsgren Fisher, and Riach Law filed a lawsuit against Immigration and Customs Enforcement on behalf of six community members whose constitutional rights were violated by ICE and other federal agents. In recent months, the Trump Administration has increased its deployment of federal forces to cities across the U.S. to supposedly deter crime and enforce immigration laws. However, federal agents have instead engaged in a series of indiscriminate immigration raids in which masked federal officers in militarized gear brandish rifles and abduct community members from local businesses, streets, and homes. In response to these unlawful attacks on their neighbors, community members showed up to observe and protest. In a blatant effort to interfere with people’s exercise of free speech and the right to peaceably assemble and express disagreement with the government, federal agents countered with harassment, intimidation, force, and detention. In Minnesota, ICE and other federal agents have followed peaceful protestors to their homes, used chemical irritants and rubber bullets on them, and have even arrested people for standing on the public sidewalk and observing them. This lawsuit asks the court – on behalf of these ordinary people who have come together courageously to stand up for the rights of all Americans – to halt ICE’s attack on First and Fourth Amendment rights. &nbsp; Case Number: 0:25-cv-04669 Documents Where it started 12/17/2025 Tincher v. Noem et al. Tincher v. Noem et al. *]:h-4 [&>*]:w-3 [&>*>*]:fill-burgundy-7"> Legal Documents Tincher v. Noem et al. Date Filed: 12/17/2025 Affiliate: MN Download document *]:w-[150px]"> Press Releases Dec 17, 2025 ACLU-MN, Pro Bono Partners Sue to Protect Protesters, Observers and Journalists from Illegal Activity by ICE Publications Dec 17, 2025 ACLU-MN, Pro Bono Partners Sue to Protect Protesters, Observers and Journalists from Illegal Activity by ICE Stay Informed Sign up to be the first to hear about how to take action. By completing this form, I agree to receive occasional emails per the terms of the ACLU’s privacy statement. By completing this form, I agree to receive occasional emails per the terms of the ACLU’s privacy statement . Search Request Legal Help Careers Donate Search © 2025 ACLU of Minnesota User Agreement Privacy Statement Website Accessibility