Title: Illegal alien from Jordan in ICE custody passes away in Miami hospital
Published: 2025-10-15 00:00:00

MIAMI - Hasan Ali Moh'D Saleh, a 67-year-old illegal alien from Jordan in ICE custody was pronounced dead by medical professionals at Larkin Community Hospital in Miami, Florida, Oct. 11 at 7:13 p.m. An LCH physician reported the preliminary cause of death as cardiac arrest.

On Oct. 10, Saleh was taken to LCH due to a fever. Later that day, he was admitted for further treatment and evaluation. On Oct. 11, at approximately 6:32 p.m., LCH medical staff found Saleh unresponsive and immediately started CPR, resuscitating him. A short time later, Saleh again lost his pulse, and CPR was reinitiated. Despite the medical team’s efforts, Saleh passed away. Saleh had a significant medical history, including hypertension, heart disease, renal disease and diabetes.

Saleh entered the United States on Mar. 8, 1994, in Miami as a nonimmigrant with authorization to remain in the U.S. for six months. On July 5, 1994, the 17th Judicial Circuit in Broward County, Fort Lauderdale, Florida, convicted Saleh of welfare fraud and sentenced him to six months’ probation. On July 22, 1994, the Immigration and Naturalization Service granted Saleh lawful permanent resident status.

On Mar. 20, 2018, Saleh was found guilty in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida of conspiracy for food stamp and wire fraud and was sentenced to 24 months in prison. On Mar. 5, 2019, ICE New Orleans encountered Saleh at the Adams County Correctional Facility in Natchez, Mississippi, after his convictions on aggravated felonies for conspiracy to commit fraud, deceit or revenue loss to the government, and conviction of two crimes involving moral turpitude.

On Aug. 28, 2019, an immigration judge terminated Saleh’s immigration proceedings without prejudice. On Sept. 12, 2019, the Bureau of Prisons transferred custody of Saleh to the custody of ERO New Orleans, which detained him at the Central Louisiana ICE Processing Center in Jena, Louisiana. On Sept.17, 2019, ERO issued Saleh a revised Notice to Appear.

On Feb. 20, 2020, an immigration judge ordered Saleh removed from the U.S. to Jordan.

On June 9, 2020, ERO New Orleans released Saleh on an order of supervision, with in-person reporting requirements, under the Alternatives to Detention program.

On Sept. 14, 2025, ERO Miami arrested Saleh in Pompano Beach, Florida, during an enforcement action pursuant to his final order of removal and transferred him to the Krome Detention Center for removal proceedings.

Consistent with ICE policy, ICE Enforcement and Removal Operations notified the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the Office of Inspector General and the ICE Office of Professional Responsibility via the Integrity Coordination Center. ICE-ERO contacted the Consulate General of Jordan in Washington, D.C., via telephone and notified them of Saleh’s death.

Upon an official report of a detained noncitizen death, ERO makes official notifications to Congress, nongovernmental organization stakeholders, and the media and posts a news release with relevant details on the public website within two business days, per agency policy. This information may be accessed in the ICE.gov Newsroom. Additionally, congressional requirements described in the DHS Appropriations Bill (2018) require ICE to make public all reports regarding an in-custody death within 90 days. These reports may be accessed on the Detainee Death Reporting page.

ICE remains committed to ensuring that all those in its custody reside in safe, secure and humane environments. Comprehensive medical care is provided from the moment individuals arrive and throughout the entirety of their stay. All people in ICE custody receive medical, dental and mental health intake screening within 12 hours of arriving at each detention facility, a full health assessment within 14 days of entering ICE custody or arrival at a facility, and access to medical appointments and 24-hour emergency care. At no time during detention is a detained noncitizen denied emergent care.

ERO is one of ICE’s three operational directorates and is the principal federal law enforcement authority in charge of domestic immigration enforcement. ERO’s mission is to protect the homeland through the arrest and removal of those who undermine the safety of U.S. communities and the integrity of U.S. immigration laws. Its primary areas of focus are interior enforcement operations, management of the agency’s detained and non-detained populations, and repatriation of noncitizens who have received final orders of removal. ERO’s workforce consists of more than 7,700 law enforcement and non-law enforcement support personnel across 25 domestic field offices and 208 locations nationwide, 30 overseas postings, and multiple temporary duty travel assignments along the border.