ICE Confirms Third Custody Death in 12 Days - Newsweek live updates Bovino Exits as Trump Shakes Up ICE Leadership in Minneapolis Nation News Politics Tech Fact Check Personal Finance Automotive Sports Better Workplaces World Russia-Ukraine Middle East China And Asia Better Planet All World News Lifestyle Family &amp; Parenting Entertainment Travel Pets Relationships Science Health Opinion My Turn All Opinion Rankings Health Finance Products Education Workplaces Corporate Responsibility All Rankings Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram YouTube TikTok Twitter/X Reddit Announcements Leadership Dev Pragad More Unconventional Events Podcasts Vantage Readers Choice Newsweek.AI Magazine Subscribe Sign In Nation News Politics Tech Fact Check Personal Finance Automotive Sports Better Workplaces World Russia-Ukraine Middle East China And Asia Better Planet All World News Lifestyle Family &amp; Parenting Entertainment Travel Pets Relationships Science Health Opinion My Turn All Opinion Rankings Health Finance Products Education Workplaces Corporate Responsibility All Rankings Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram YouTube TikTok Twitter/X Reddit Announcements Leadership Dev Pragad More Unconventional Events Podcasts Vantage Readers Choice Newsweek.AI Magazine News Immigrant Detention Centers Immigration and Customs Enforcement ICE U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Immigration News Article ICE Confirms Third Custody Death in 12 Days Published Oct 16, 2025 at 05:45 AM EDT updated Oct 20, 2025 at 03:09 PM EDT ... By Billal Rahman Immigration Reporter Share Newsweek is a Trust Project member Three individuals in U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) custody have died within 12 days, according to several news releases issued by the agency. Why It Matters The latest deaths have sparked renewed concerns about medical care and oversight for detainees in ICE custody. Newsweek has reported on several allegations of abuse at ICE-run detention centers, including cases of medical neglect and mistreatment of migrants . ICE has come under increased scrutiny amid the Trump administration’s efforts to expand immigration enforcement, with overcrowding in detention facilities emerging as a persistent concern. Image placeholder ... What To Know A 67-year-old Jordanian national in ICE custody died on October 11 at Larkin Community Hospital (LCH) in Miami, Florida, according to a press release. ICE said Hasan Ali Moh'D Saleh was pronounced dead by medical professionals at 7:13 p.m. on October 11. The agency said a preliminary cause of death determined by a hospital physician was cardiac arrest. The agency said Saleh had been taken to LCH on October 10 due to a fever and was admitted for further treatment and evaluation. On October 11, LCH medical staff found Saleh unresponsive and began cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) at approximately 6:32 p.m. Saleh was briefly resuscitated, but later lost his pulse again, according to the news release. ICE said hospital staff reinitiated CPR, but Saleh ultimately died. Saleh had a medical history that included hypertension, heart disease, renal disease, and diabetes, according to the agency. ICE said Saleh had first entered the United States on March 8, 1994, in Miami as a non-immigrant with authorization to remain in the U.S. for six months. ICE said he later gained lawful permanent resident status following a 1994 conviction for welfare fraud in Broward County, Florida. In 2018, Saleh was found guilty in federal court for conspiracy related to food stamps and wire fraud and sentenced to 24 months in prison, according to ICE. The agency said it encountered Saleh in 2019 after his release from prison, based on prior felony convictions, and subsequently detained him at the Central Louisiana ICE Processing Center. An immigration judge ordered Saleh removed from the United States in February 2020, according to an ICE press release. ICE said Saleh was released under an Alternatives to Detention program in June 2020 but was taken back into custody on September 14, 2025, in Pompano Beach, Florida, during an enforcement action related to his final order of removal. ICE said he was then transferred to the Krome Detention Center for removal proceedings. Leo Cruz-Silva, a 34-year-old Mexican national, died on October 4 at the Ste. Genevieve County Jail in Missouri, in "what looked like a suicide attempt," ICE said . He was pronounced dead at 3:47 p.m. by Ste. Genevieve County emergency medical personnel, according to ICE. Cruz-Silva had entered the United States at an unknown date and location and had a prior history of arrests and removals dating back to 2010, the agency said. On July 14, 2011, an immigration judge in Memphis, Tennessee, ordered him removed to Mexico, according to ICE. He was again removed on April 18, 2017, following another arrest in Tennessee, ICE said. Cruz-Silva later reentered the United States multiple times after removal. On September 30, 2025, Festus Police in Missouri arrested him for public intoxication and notified ICE. The agency took him into custody on October 1, 2025, pending reinstatement of a prior removal order, per the ICE release. Huabing Xie, a Chinese national, passed away on September 29, after being transported from the Imperial Regional Detention Facility to El Centro Regional Medical Center in California, the agency said in a news release. Staff at the Calexico-area detention center reported that Xie suffered a seizure and became unresponsive at about 2:13 p.m.; medical personnel on site performed CPR and used a defibrillator before he was taken to the hospital, where he was later pronounced dead, according to ICE. U.S. Border Patrol agents arrested Xie near Tecate, California, on December 31, 2023, ICE said. He was served a notice to appear before the Department of Justice’s Executive Office for Immigration Review and placed into removal proceedings, then released the same day on an order of recognizance, the agency said. Xie was taken into custody again on September 12 in Indio, California, and transferred to ICE the following day, the agency announced. According to ICE, he remained in detention while his immigration case was being processed. ICE’s public announcement did not include information about any preexisting medical conditions. The Department of Homeland Security’s Office of Inspector General (OIG) and ICE’s Office of Professional Responsibility typically review every in-custody death to determine whether detention standards were followed, according to agency policy. ICE has reported at least 20 in-custody deaths during the 2025 fiscal year, according to the Detention Watch Network, an advocacy group. What People Are Saying ICE wrote in a press release: "ICE remains committed to ensuring that all those in its custody reside in safe, secure and humane environments. Comprehensive medical care is provided from the moment individuals arrive and throughout the entirety of their stay." Setareh Ghandehari, advocacy director at Detention Watch Network, said in a statement shared with Newsweek : "Trump's cruel mass detention expansion is exacerbating the inhumane conditions that are inherent to ICE’s detention system and have been well documented for decades. Over the last nine months, there have been increasing reports of death, medical neglect, isolation, overcrowding, lack of food, and rampant transfers that cut people off from their loved ones and support networks." Updated 10/10/25 at 3:00 p.m. ET: This article has been updated for clarity. If you or someone you know may be considering suicide or be in crisis, call or text 988 to reach the 988 Suicide &amp; Crisis Lifeline . Request Reprint &amp; Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial &amp; AI Guidelines Add Newsweek as a preferred source on Google to see more of our trusted coverage when you search. Related Podcasts Top Stories News Bovino Exits as Trump Shakes Up ICE Leadership in Minneapolis: Live Updates 2 min read For Members News Uncommon Knowledge: Is ICE Really Targeting the Worst of the Worst? 6 min read World Russia Spells Out ‘Path to Peace’ for Zelensky 3 min read News Winter Storm Sparks Travel Chaos, Hundreds of Flight Cancellations 3 min read World ICE Agents Due at Winter Olympics ‘Not Welcome’: Milan Mayor 3 min read News Trump Shares Iran Update as US Sends ‘Armada’ to Region 4 min read Trending Social Security Seniors on Social Security Could Face $460 Monthly Cut to Benefits 4 min read Kristi Noem Kristi Noem Impeachment: 140 Lawmakers Sign On—Full List 9 min read Green Card Green Card Update: Applicants For 2027 Receive Boost 4 min read Alex Pretti Trump Admin Goes Against Kristi Noem’s Remarks About Alex Pretti 6 min read Alex Pretti Major US Companies Speak Out Against Alex Pretti Shooting: Full List 10 min read Opinion Opinion Let Venezuela be Free at Last | Opinion 5 min read Opinion Japan Wonders: Will the ‘Donroe Doctrine’ Include Us? | Opinion 5 min read Opinion It’s Time To Give Jews a Special Protected Minority Status | Opinion 5 min read Opinion LEGO Education: Child Agency in the Age of AI | Opinion 4 min read Opinion Not So Fast, Mark Carney | Opinion 6 min read sections Nation World Lifestyle Health Opinion Rankings company About Us Masthead Careers Diversity &amp; Inclusion Mission Statement Leadership editions U.S. Edition 日本 Polska România contact Advertise Corrections Announcements Press Center Contact Us terms of use Cookie Policy Copyright Privacy Policy Terms &amp; Conditions Terms of Sale Privacy Settings sections Nation World Lifestyle Health Opinion Rankings company About Us Masthead Careers Diversity &amp; Inclusion Mission Statement Leadership editions U.S. Edition 日本 Polska România contact Advertise Corrections Announcements Press Center Contact Us terms of use Cookie Policy Copyright Privacy Policy Terms &amp; Conditions Terms of Sale Privacy Settings © 2026 Newsweek Digital LLC