Border Patrol arrests reach 250 in Charlotte immigration crackdown, per DHS - Axios Charlotte Skip to main content Jobs in Charlotte Events in Charlotte New! Axios Charlotte Homepage Charlotte Homepage Axios Charlotte Homepage Charlotte News Food and Drink Things to Do Business Real Estate Sports Sign up for the newsletter login Nov 19, 2025 - News Border Patrol reports over 250 Charlotte arrests, but most detainees are unidentified Alexandria Sands facebook (opens in new window) twitter (opens in new window) linkedin (opens in new window) nextdoor (opens in new window) email (opens in new window) Add Axios on Google Add Axios as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. Add Axios on Google U.S. Border Patrol agents detain a person in Charlotte on Nov. 19, 2025. Photo: Ryan Murphy/Getty Images Federal Border Patrol agents made more than 250 arrests in the first four days of their Charlotte immigration crackdown, according to a Nov. 18 evening update from the Department of Homeland Security. Why it matters: In an earlier update, the agency said 44 of the roughly 130 arrests made during the first two days were &quot;criminal illegal aliens.&quot; Yes, but: That leaves between 86 and 206 people whose criminal backgrounds or immigration statuses are unclear. Of the 44, DHS identified only a handful, whom it described as the &quot;worst of the worst&quot; criminals. The list included two people whom DHS describes as known gang members. Other crimes ranged from larceny to aggravated assault to driving while intoxicated. One of the featured individuals had only a bench warrant and &quot;illegal entry&quot; listed as their crime. Axios is awaiting a response to a Freedom of Information Act request seeking the full names and criminal backgrounds of those apprehended in Charlotte during &quot;Operation Charlotte&#x27;s Web,&quot; which launched Nov. 15. Catch up quick: DHS says the purpose of the Charlotte enforcement &quot;surge&quot; is to target serious criminals, including alleged murderers and child sex offenders , and those who were released from jail after immigration detainers weren&#x27;t honored. Mecklenburg County Sheriff Garry McFadden has a reputation for not &quot;cooperating&quot; with Immigration and Customs Enforcement, but he&#x27;s since said relationships with federal partners are improving. Reality check: Nationwide, Border Patrol and ICE agents have been accused of stopping law-abiding citizens of Latino descent and asking them to prove citizenship, or in some cases, wrongfully detaining them. In Chicago, 97% of undocumented immigrants detained by ICE in raids from June to early October who are still in the country had no criminal record at the time of their arrest, NPR reported, citing a Department of Justice document. After the Trump administration tripled ICE&#x27;s quota, arrests of people without criminal charges or convictions spiked, Axios reported in June. The big picture: The ongoing Charlotte operation, now in its fifth day, is rattling the Latino community and weighing on the local economy. Immigrant-owned businesses have temporarily closed, construction sites have emptied, and school absences have surged . Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools reports 30,399 students were absent on Monday. Nearly 25,700 were out on Tuesday, according to unofficial totals. What&#x27;s next: DHS has declined to disclose how long the Charlotte operation will last. ABC News reported agents could move out on Friday. The agency has also deployed resources to the Triangle . Agents are expected to shift operations to New Orleans next, according to multiple outlets. facebook (opens in new window) twitter (opens in new window) linkedin (opens in new window) nextdoor (opens in new window) email (opens in new window) Add Axios on Google More Charlotte stories Smarter, faster on what matters. Explore Axios Newsletters About Axios Advertise with us Careers Contact us Newsletters Axios Live Axios HQ Privacy policy Terms of use Axios Homepage Axios Media Inc., 2025