US Citizens Detained by Officials in Milwaukee for Speaking Spanish | Truthout Skip to content Skip to footer Truthout Logo Truthout Latest About Donate ABOUT LATEST DONATE Trending : Alex Pretti Prisons ICE Trump Administration Palestine Truthout Logo Truthout Latest About Donate Menu Latest About Us Subscribe Donate Search Search Filter Search Search All Content Articles Audio Posts Video Posts Authors Social Media Facebook Facebook Circle Icon Bluesky Bluesky Circle Icon Flipboard Flipboard Circle Icon Instagram Instagram Circle Icon Twitter Twitter Circle Icon RSS RSS Circle Icon Sections Culture &amp; Media Economy &amp; Labor Education &amp; Youth Environment &amp; Health Human Rights Immigration LGBTQ Rights Politics &amp; Elections Prisons &amp; Policing Racial Justice Reproductive Rights War &amp; Peace Series &#038; Podcasts Trending Alex Pretti Prisons ICE Trump Administration Palestine Latest Donald Trump Rep. Maxwell Frost Punched by Man Who Allegedly Said Trump Will Deport Him Donald Trump Trump Admin Pushes International Orgs to Disavow Trans Care With Funding Ban Immigration Civil Rights Attorney Faces “Trumped-Up Charges” for Anti-ICE Church Protest Donald Trump Americans Skeptical of Fed Narratives as Court Reviews &#8220;Metro Surge&#8221; More About Donate Manage Your Donation Support Our Work Subscribe Submission Guidelines Financial Information Privacy Policy Memorial Essay Prize Truthout Center for Grassroots Journalism Job Openings Contact Us &copy; 2026 Truthout News | Immigration US Citizens Detained by Officials in Milwaukee for Speaking Spanish The family members were only released after they produced their birth certificates, a news report details. By Chris Walker , T ruthout Published January 30, 2025 ICE agent badge is pictured on September 25, 2019, in Revere, Massachusetts. Matt Stone / MediaNews Group / Boston Herald via Getty Images Support justice-driven, accurate and transparent news — make a quick donation to Truthout today! A family of U.S. citizens in Milwaukee was recently detained by U.S. officials who questioned their immigration status after hearing them speak Spanish — the latest incident of racial profiling amid the Trump administration’s anti-immigration crackdown across the country. A relative of the family told reporters that his detained family members were born in Puerto Rico, which is a U.S. territory; people born there are U.S. citizens. Telemundo Puerto Rico first reported the incident on Monday. Some details about the incident, including when it happened, are unclear, due to the family choosing to remain anonymous out of fears that they could be targeted again. According to the report, the three family members — a toddler, his mother and his grandmother — were shopping in Milwaukee when they were overheard speaking Spanish . U.S. officials, possibly agents from Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), detained all three soon after, refusing to listen to their protestations until they reached a government facility. The brother of one of the women who was detained said that she had tried to explain their situation to no avail. &#8220;My sister, in English, explained that not only are they American citizens, but that they are from Puerto Rico. They were born in Puerto Rico,&#8221; said the brother , who spoke anonymously to Telemundo about the matter. Related Story News | Immigration Over 15 Navajo Nation Members Swept Up in Trump Immigration Raids One Navajo Nation official said that &ldquo;many fear for the threat of being deported.&rdquo; By Chris Walker , T ruthout January 28, 2025 Truthout The U.S. officials eventually released the three family members, but only after the mother presented their birth certificates, the family recounted. One agent claimed they were &#8220;so sorry&#8221; for the error — but upon releasing the family, officials refused to drive them back to where they were initially detained, essentially stranding them and requiring them to pay for their own transportation . This latest incident of racial profiling is consistent with the Trump administration’s blueprint for nationwide mass deportations — earlier this month, White House &#8220;border czar&#8221; Tom Homan said that the operation would likely include &#8220;collateral arrests.” Human rights advocates have warned that the administration’s plan will likely be enforced through widespread racial profiling, and will have “cataclysmic consequences” not only for undocumented people, but also for immigrants who are citizens or authorized to live in the U.S., who may also be targeted for deportation. Just this past week, more than a dozen members of the Navajo Nation in Arizona and New Mexico were reportedly swept up in immigration raids , with U.S. officials refusing to accept their tribal identifications as valid proof of citizenship. In response, Navajo Nation President Buu Nygren released a statement advising Diné/Navajo Nation members to &#8220;carry state-issued identification&#8221; on their persons, &#8220;such as a driver’s license, other picture identification, or their Certificate of Indian blood, known as a CIB,” citing Indigenous people’s “negative, and sometimes traumatizing, experiences with federal agents targeting undocumented immigrants in the Southwest.” Trump is silencing political dissent. We appeal for your support. Progressive nonprofits are the latest target caught in Trump’s crosshairs. With the aim of eliminating political opposition, Trump and his sycophants are working to curb government funding, constrain private foundations, and even cut tax-exempt status from organizations he dislikes. We’re concerned, because Truthout is not immune to such bad-faith attacks. We can only resist Trump’s attacks by cultivating a strong base of support. The right-wing mediasphere is funded comfortably by billionaire owners and venture capitalist philanthropists. At Truthout, we have you. Truthout has launched a fundraiser, and we have only 72 hours left to raise $24,000. Please take a meaningful action in the fight against authoritarianism: make a one-time or monthly donation to Truthout. If you have the means, please dig deep. Share Share via Facebook Facebook Circle Icon Share via Bluesky Bluesky Circle Icon Share via Flipboard Flipboard Circle Icon Share via Mail Mail Circle Icon Share via Print More Share via Threads Share via Reddit Reddit Cirlce Icon Share via Pocket Pocket Circle Icon Share via Linkedin LinkedIn Circle Icon Share via Twitter Twitter Circle Icon This article is licensed under Creative Commons (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0) , and you are free to share and republish under the terms of the license. We need your help to become less dependent on traffic from Facebook and X. Follow us on Bluesky today! Chris Walker Chris Walker is a news writer at Truthout , based in Madison, Wisconsin. Focusing on both national and local topics since the early 2000s, he has produced thousands of articles analyzing the issues of the day and their impact on people. He can be found on most social media platforms under the handle @thatchriswalker . Truthout Share Share via Facebook Facebook Circle Icon Share via Bluesky Bluesky Circle Icon Share via Flipboard Flipboard Circle Icon Share via Mail Mail Circle Icon Share via Print More Share via Threads Share via Reddit Reddit Cirlce Icon Share via Pocket Pocket Circle Icon Share via Linkedin LinkedIn Circle Icon Share via Twitter Twitter Circle Icon &hellip;Reading List Prisons &amp; Policing Minneapolis Residents Face Down Police and Feds After Pretti’s Killing Prisons &amp; Policing They Collaborated on an Oscar-Nominated Film – Then Got Thrown Into Solitary Immigration Immigrant Children Lead Uprising at Texas Detention Center Economy &amp; Labor US’s Largest Nurses’ Union Demands Abolition of ICE After Alex Pretti Killing Economy &amp; Labor Striking Spanish Workers Just Showed That Amazon Is Not Invincible Prisons &amp; Policing Minneapolis’s 2020 Uprising Laid an Abolitionist Groundwork for ICE Resistance Related Stories News Analysis | Immigration Trump’s Blitz on Immigration Aimed to Overwhelm. Here’s What You Need to Know. Executive orders Trump issued in his first days in office violate both the Constitution and several US laws. By Marjorie Cohn , T ruthout January 23, 2025 Truthout Op-Ed | Immigration By Voting for Laken Riley Act, Democrats Cede More Power to Anti-Immigrant Right Republicans are pushing the new legislation, which will bring an already hostile immigration status quo into chaos. By Schuyler Mitchell , T ruthout January 17, 2025 Truthout News | Education &amp; Youth Civil Rights Defenders Slam Trump’s Order to Deport Pro-Palestine Students Jewish Voice for Peace says the order follows the Heritage Foundation's broader plan to dismantle US civil society. By Brett Wilkins , C ommon D reams January 30, 2025 Truthout Latest Stories Interview | Immigration Civil Rights Attorney Faces “Trumped-Up Charges” for Anti-ICE Church Protest “I’m being criminalized for helping to lead a nonviolent, peaceful demonstration,” says Nekima Levy Armstrong. By Amy Goodman , D emocracy N ow! January 26, 2026 Truthout News | Immigration Americans Skeptical of Fed Narratives as Court Reviews &#8220;Metro Surge&#8221; More than 6 in 10 Americans who have seen the video of Pretti being killed say the shooting was not justified. By Chris Walker , T ruthout January 26, 2026 Truthout News | Immigration Minneapolis Residents Face Down Police and Feds After Pretti’s Killing “The resilience of our communities is really incredible,” one demonstrator said. “They’re murdering us out here.” By Theia Chatelle , T ruthout January 26, 2026 Truthout News | Immigration Immigrant Children Lead Uprising at Texas Detention Center The immigrant jail, where many children are detained, has &ldquo;horrible&rdquo; conditions, including &ldquo;putrid&rdquo; drinking water. By Chris Walker , T ruthout January 26, 2026 Truthout News | Immigration Outrage at Latest DHS Killing Erupts Across Minnesota and the US In the past months ICE and CBP have opened fire nearly 2 dozen times — killing at least 6 people including Alex Pretti. By Julia Conley , C ommon D reams January 25, 2026 Truthout Op-Ed | Immigration Hotels Should Deploy the 3rd Amendment and Refuse to House ICE Agents ICE is acting as a standing army occupying US cities. This is what the 3rd Amendment was written for. By Imani Gandy , R ewire N ews G roup January 25, 2026 Truthout News | Immigration Minneapolis Health Care Workers Are Organizing to Defend Their Patients From ICE Organizing and rights trainings have helped health care workers protect their colleagues and their patients. By Marianne Dhenin , T ruthout January 24, 2026 Truthout News | Immigration Video Contradicts DHS Claims About Minneapolis Killing of Alex Pretti “The final act of his life was trying to help a woman who was being physically assaulted,” described one journalist. By Julia Conley , C ommon D reams January 24, 2026 Truthout News | Immigration The Rio Grande Has Transformed From Environmental Haven to Militarized Border Dozens of environmental, wildlife, and public access regulations have been waived to make way for a border wall. By Elena Bruess , C apital &amp; M ain January 24, 2026 Truthout News | Immigration Federal Immigration Agents Shoot and Kill Another Person in Minneapolis Video taken by bystanders shows agents wrestling the man to the ground and beating him before firing multiple shots. By Madison McVan & Michelle Griffith , M innesota R eformer January 24, 2026 Truthout News Culture &amp; Media Economy &amp; Labor Education &amp; Youth Environment &amp; Health Human Rights Immigration LGBTQ Rights Politics &amp; Elections Prisons &amp; Policing Racial Justice Reproductive Rights War &amp; Peace Series &#038; Podcasts Series Struggle and Solidarity: Writing Toward Palestinian Liberation Despair and Disparity: The Uneven Burdens of COVID-19 Human Rights and Global Wrongs The Road to Abolition The Public Intellectual Movement Memos Voting Wrongs Challenging the Corporate University Covering Climate Now More About Donate Manage Your Donation Support Our Work Subscribe Submission Guidelines Financial Information Privacy Policy Memorial Essay Prize Truthout Center for Grassroots Journalism Job Openings Contact Us Facebook Facebook Circle Icon Bluesky Bluesky Circle Icon Flipboard Flipboard Circle Icon Instagram Instagram Circle Icon Twitter Twitter Circle Icon RSS RSS Circle Icon Never Miss Another Story Get the news you want, delivered to your inbox every day. Phone This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Email * &copy; 2026 Truthout Toggle Donation Bar Important Fundraising Drive: 72 Hours Left Truthout must raise $24,000 for our basic publishing costs this month. We are appealing to our readers to make a one-time or monthly donation. Donate now if you can!