Title: Reported ICE activity in Las Vegas raises alarm for immigration advocates
Published: 2025-04-24 00:00:00

Federal immigration agents have reportedly been detaining people throughout the Las Vegas Valley. Where and how are they arresting people?

Videos of stops and detainments are circulating online, and while government and immigration attorneys have been urging education over panic, it’s scaring many Nevadans and alarming immigrant advocacy organizations.

The Nevada Immigrant Coalition, with support from UNLV, the ACLU of Nevada and others, compiled a list of alleged U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or ICE, activities that took place in Las Vegas between April 13 and 17.

In an email to Nevada Public Radio, it states ICE was seen on various major streets like Bonanza, Sahara, and commonplaces like Freedom Park and the Indoor Swapmeet on Eastern and Owens.

The exact number of people detained in Las Vegas so far is not known, but immigration attorney Nallely Abad for Handy Legal Services said it’s probably many.

“Just from the phone calls that we received in our office, and information from colleagues, we're talking about over 30 persons that were detained during that process. And I believe it's probably more.”

Nevada Public Radio reached out to various law enforcement agencies, including ICE. ICE responded with the following:

Due to operational security reasons and for the safety of our law enforcement personnel, ICE does not confirm or discuss ongoing or future operations. The agency publicly announces the results of operations when appropriate. As part of its routine operations, ICE arrests aliens who commit crimes and other individuals who have violated our nation’s immigration laws. All aliens in violation of U.S. immigration law may be subject to arrest, detention and, if found removable by final order, removal from the United States, regardless of nationality.

While ICE states its focus is on individuals without legal status who have committed serious crimes or have prior deportation orders, Abad is currently representing a client who allegedly contradicts this focus.

“This person was detained through a traffic stop. They asked to see a warrant, it never occurred. Then it escalated, and the officers on scene broke a window to remove this person from their vehicle. He does have a misdemeanor charge, but he does not have any deportable offenses.”

Laura Martin, executive director of the immigrant advocacy organization, Progressive Leadership Alliance of Nevada, said fear persists even among individuals with legal status in the U.S.

“The Trump administration is taking away the status of people who are international students because of [political activism], people who have Temporary Protected Status (TPS), people with Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals status (DACA),” Martin said.

“We're also hearing of US citizens being detained by ICE. You don't really know if you are protected or not, and so people are just playing it safe.”

Bliss Requa-Trautz, executive director of the Arriba Las Vegas Worker Center, an immigrant worker advocacy group, said workplaces also saw ICE activity in the last couple of weeks.

“Very concerning to see that ICE went to a local bakery and detained a legal permanent resident at his place of employment. We also saw enforcement activities that caused an extreme level of distress for some employees in workplaces that are part of the economy of our state.”

If ICE shows up at your door, immigration attorney Nallely Abad stressed the importance of verifying they have the proper warrant.

“They must have a valid warrant issued by a judge, not an administrative warrant that's not signed by a judge. Do not open the door. Ask them to either slide it underneath the door or show it on a closed window. It has to list [your] address,” Abad said.

“Make sure that whoever is going to the door, that they close it behind them, because if it's specifically stating that it's for the apprehension of one person, it doesn't give them the right to enter the home and ask questions for other persons who might be in the home.”

Guests: Nallely Abad, immigration attorney, Handy Legal Services; Bliss Requa-Trautz, executive director, Arriba Las Vegas Worker Center; Laura Martin, executive director, Progressive Leadership Alliance of Nevada