4 officers injured, 13 people arrested during ICE protests in Austin Please ensure Javascript is enabled for purposes of website accessibility Close Download the App Get your news faster with our mobile experience Install News News Central Texas roads still risky despite thaw; officials urge caution overnight Central Texas briefly climbed above freezing Monday, allowing some ice on roadways to melt, but officials say dangerous driving conditions remain and are urging Motorcyclist killed in crash with vehicle on SB I-35 in East Austin; all lanes closed The Austin Police Department is investigating a fatal crash on Interstate 35 in East Austin on Monday night. Austin mourns first winter storm fatality despite record shelter efforts The arctic blast that came over Central Texas left one person dead in Austin over the weekend.Austin Police confirmed this person was 43 year-old, Gregory Ross When you don&#x27;t have a sled but you DO have a kayak Ice on the roads is a problem, but ice on a hillside is nothing but fun for many Central Texas kids. Families are taking advantage on Monday because this is lik Local Nation &amp; World Entertainment Offbeat Marshals&#x27; Most Wanted Connect to Congress Armstrong Army Strong Inside Your World beyond the podium Amazing America Spotlight on America Full Measure with Sharyl Attkisson Traffic Crisis in the Classroom ProAdvice Texas Politics Tech this Out Where&#x27;s our Water? Rising Waters Weather Current Weather Austin Clear 22 F 48 / 20 Today 48 / 20 Tuesday 48 / 29 Wednesday 56 / 31 Latest Weathercast Latest Weathercast Radar Maps Cams Weather Alert Days Hurricane Center Allergens Weather Blog Weather App We Are Austin We Are Austin Swift Fit Social&#x27;s &quot;Glow &amp; Grow&quot; event promises fun and Karmic Snapshot insight! Swift Fit Social is kicking off 2026 with a bang, inviting everyone to their innaugural event &quot;Glow &amp; Grow&quot; immersive New Year party. CEO Candace Kief, along wi Sicka Than Average shares health and beauty picks to help you thrive in 2026! Austin is gearing up for a fabulous 2026, and lifestyle expert Celia San Miguel is here to ensure we all thrive. As the founder of Sicka Than Average, Celia sha Women Communicators of Austin Celebrates Excellence With Banner Brunch Awards AUSTIN, Texas &amp;mdash; For nearly a century, Women Communicators of Austin (WCA) has been championing connection, creativity, and opportunity for professionals across ThriftBooks Inspires a New Chapter for American Readers New Survey Shows Americans Want to Read More in 2026 &amp;mdash; But Many Struggle to Start!As Americans look to cut back on screen time in the new year, a new survey rev Road Trippin&#x27; My Hometown Sinclair Cares Partner Spotlight Holiday Gift Guide Kindness in the Air Sports Sports Arch Manning undergoes foot surgery, expected to rejoin Longhorns by spring practice Texas Longhorns quarterback Arch Manning underwent minor foot surgery this week as a preventative measure to address a previous injury, according to UT football Former Texas football star Jordan Shipley released from hospital after ranch accident Former Texas football player Jordan Shipley has been discharged from the hospital following an accident on his ranch in Burnet earlier this month.According to a Emma Hayes on NWSL HIP rule: &#x27;Not the right position to put me or any coach&#x27; in Emma Hayes discusses Trinity Rodman&#x27;s return from injury and her ongoing contract saga in the NWSL. Whittingham focused on refining Underwood at Michigan Michigan has a new man at the helm of their football program and he comes from the Urban Meyer coaching tree.Meyer&#x27;s former defensive coordinator, Kyle Whittin High School College Professional TICKETS City Guide Game Center Game Center Daily Crossword Guess Word Jewel Block Micro Crossword Classic Sudoku Word Search Watch Live Now 22 ° Tue 49 ° Wed 55 ° Search Search User Icon Watch Search News Down Arrow Local Nation &amp; World Entertainment Offbeat Marshals&#x27; Most Wanted Connect to Congress Armstrong Army Strong Inside Your World beyond the podium Amazing America Spotlight on America Full Measure with Sharyl Attkisson Traffic Crisis in the Classroom ProAdvice Texas Politics Tech this Out Where&#x27;s our Water? Rising Waters Weather Down Arrow Weather Home Radar Maps Cams Weather Alert Days Hurricane Center Allergens Weather Blog Weather App We Are Austin Down Arrow We Are Austin Home Road Trippin&#x27; My Hometown Sinclair Cares Partner Spotlight Holiday Gift Guide Kindness in the Air Sports Down Arrow Sports Home High School College Professional TICKETS City Guide Game Center Down Arrow Game Center Home Daily Crossword Guess Word Jewel Block Micro Crossword Classic Sudoku Word Search Money Down Arrow Money Home Deposits Investing Mortgages Loans Credit Cards Chime In Memorials Newsletter Sign Up Station Down Arrow Station Home Contact People Careers EEO Terms Copyright Privacy Mobile Apps Contests Schedule Commercial Production Newsletter Sign Up NextGen TV Community Partner Program Legal Down Arrow Terms &amp; Conditions Copyright Notices EEO Public File Report FCC Info FCC Applications Public File Assistance Contact News Team Careers Contests facebook icon twitter icon ACCESSIBILITY 4 officers injured, 13 people arrested during ICE protests in Austin by Tara Brolley, Bettie Cross Tue, June 10, 2025 at 1:10 PM Updated Wed, June 11, 2025 at 10:24 AM 25 VIEW ALL PHOTOS Four Austin police officers were injured and 13 people were arrested during ICE protests on Monday, June 9, 2025, police said. (Photo: APD and DPS) Comment on this story 1 Comment Share story Share topics: ICE protests Austin police Officers injured Arrests made Criminal mischief Federal building Tear gas Public safety AUSTIN, Texas (KEYE) — Four Austin police officers were injured and 13 people were arrested during ICE protests Monday , police said. Austin Police Chief Lisa Davis said three officers were injured by &quot;very large rocks&quot; thrown by protesters, while a fourth officer sustained a shoulder injury during an arrest and was also spit on by a demonstrator. &quot;These were no small pebbles,&quot; Davis said during a news conference Tuesday. All four officers were treated at hospitals and released. The protest began at the Texas State Capitol, where grounds were closed, before moving through downtown Austin. Police said officers from both the Austin Police Department and the Texas Department of Public Safety worked together to block traffic and allow peaceful marching. The &quot;dynamic changed&quot; when the crowd gathered at the JJ Pickle Federal Building and some protesters began spray-painting graffiti on the property. Officers issued dispersal orders and arrested two people for criminal mischief at that point. RELATED | Texas governor says over a dozen people were arrested at ICE protests &quot;Shortly after tensions began to escalate and agitators began throwing rocks at officers, and one officer was spit on in the eye,&quot; Davis said. Officers briefly withdrew to try to de-escalate the situation, but the crowd quickly advanced back toward the federal building, prompting police to deploy pepper balls toward the ground to saturate the area and prevent protesters from moving forward. The Texas Department of Public Safety then deployed CS tear gas to disperse the crowd. Davis said they wanted to prevent protesters from breaking the glass at the federal building. &quot;Pepper ball is put on the ground and it allows the pepper spray to come up to disperse the crowds,&quot; Davis said. KEYE The crowd broke into smaller groups, with some throwing scooters and barricades into roadways and overturning water barriers before being contained near Seventh Street and Congress Avenue. Austin police arrested eight people on charges including criminal mischief, harassment of a public servant, failure to obey lawful orders, resisting arrest, interference with public duties, riot, and reckless driving. Those arrested by APD were identified as Conor Williams and Abigail Pore, both charged with criminal mischief for graffiti at the federal building; Alexandra Haddix, charged with failure to obey a lawful order; Cody Bates, charged with harassment of a public servant; Edgar Tovar, charged with reckless driving; Shaneal Harun, charged with riot and resisting arrest; Margarito Perez Montalvo, charged with interference with public duties and resisting arrest; and Hayden Perez, charged with failure to obey a lawful order and harassment of a public servant. (Photos/APD) Those arrested by APD were identified as: Conor Williams, charged with criminal mischief for graffiti at the federal building Abigail Pore, charged with criminal mischief for graffiti at the federal building Alexandra Haddix, charged with failure to obey a lawful order Cody Bates, charged with harassment of a public servant Edgar Tovar, charged with reckless driving Shaneal Harun, charged with riot and resisting arrest Margarito Perez Montalvo, charged with interference with public duties and resisting arrest Hayden Perez, charged with failure to obey a lawful order and harassment of a public servant The Texas Department of Public Safety arrested five additional people on various charges, including felony criminal mischief and resisting arrest, bringing the total arrests to 13. The following individuals arrested by DPS and booked into the Travis County Jail were identified as: Alvin Jarret Talley (23) – felony criminal mischief and resisting arrest; Hiram Gilberto Garcia (27) – resisting arrest; Zakk Wylde Bonham (22) – felony criminal mischief and resisting arrest; Luis Davila (21) – felony criminal mischief; William Haraway (50) – assault by contact and public intoxication. (Photo: Texas DPS) The following individuals arrested by DPS and booked into the Travis County Jail were identified as: Alvin Jarret Talley (23) – felony criminal mischief and resisting arrest Hiram Gilberto Garcia (27) – resisting arrest Zakk Wylde Bonham (22) – felony criminal mischief and resisting arrest Luis Davila (21) – felony criminal mischief William Haraway (50) – assault by contact and public intoxication &quot;It is a fundamental right to protest,&quot; Davis said. &quot;However, when that protest turns violent, when it turns to throwing rocks, throwing bottles at officers, at other members of the public and community, that will not be tolerated. Arrests will be made.&quot; She said that the goal is to keep citizens and officers safe, which includes creating exits for people when they are asked to disperse. The protesters at the federal building say they are part of a decentralized, anonymous movement that says they support confrontation in the &quot;most legal means possible.&quot; &quot;Change will only happen when we keep putting pressure on the people in power - the police, ICE, politicians, everyone,&quot; said a protester who identified himself as Jason. &quot;We have to actually stand our ground and go beyond just words.&quot; Chief Davis says officers relied on drones and pepper ball projectiles during Monday night&#x27;s protest. DPS also deployed tear gas. Law enforcement expects more protests on Saturday. &quot;You&#x27;re going to be seeing an increase in visibility of officers. We are going to be at 100% staffing for officers this weekend,&quot; said Chief Davis. Chief Davis says officers will also be in the crowd on Saturday using &quot;dialogue policing&quot; to open a conversation with protesters and make sure they know the law and what police will and will not tolerate. &quot;They will be in the crowd, talking with people who are there for the protest. The goal is to make contact with people who are there before the actual protest,&quot; said Chief Davis. Monday night, the front of the JJ Pickle Federal Building was covered with graffiti. By Tuesday morning, it had all been removed. The only remaining damage is to one door, which is now boarded up. Comment with Bubbles READ THE COMMENTS (1) The protests were among several nationwide demonstrations related to immigration enforcement actions. Trending Central Texas school districts announce closures, delays for Tuesday Multiple school districts across the region are closed Monday due to hazardous road conditions caused by the weekend&#x27;s winter storm, and some are already announ Expert Settles the Faucet Drip Debate and Shares Other Cold-Weather Tips As temperatures drop across Central Texas, one question keeps popping up online: Should you drip your faucets or let them stream?To settle the debate, we spoke 45 residents displaced after Bee Cave apartment fire A large fire tore through an apartment building in Bee Cave on Monday morning, affecting 20 units and displacing 45 residents.The fire at the Estates at Bee Cav Teen dies, another critical after sled being pulled by Jeep Wrangler hits tree A sledding accident involving teenagers left a 16-year-old girl dead and another in critical condition.Just before 2:30 p.m. Sunday, police in Frisco were calle Central Texas begins to thaw Monday afternoon After a dangerous weekend of sleet and icy roads across Central Texas, conditions are slowly improving &amp;mdash; but caution is still critical Monday morning.Road Condi NEWS IN PHOTOS: &quot; Local &quot; 8 Central Texas roads still risky despite thaw; officials urge caution overnight 4 Austin mourns first winter storm fatality despite record shelter efforts 5 When you don&#x27;t have a sled but you DO have a kayak 10 Austin Pets Alive! sees record low animals after community volunteers during winter storm ACCESSIBILITY Download Our Mobile Apps: Terms &amp; Conditions Copyright Notices EEO Public File Report FCC Info FCC Applications Public File Assistance Contact News Team Careers Contests News Weather Sports Game Center Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Do Not Sell or Share Cookie Preferences facebook icon twitter icon 2026 Sinclair, Inc.