Title: 4 officers injured, 13 people arrested during ICE protests in Austin
Authors: Brolley, Tue, June, At Pm
Published: 2025-06-10 18:10:43+00:00

Four Austin police officers were injured and 13 people were arrested during ICE protests Monday, police said.

Austin Police Chief Lisa Davis said three officers were injured by "very large rocks" thrown by protesters, while a fourth officer sustained a shoulder injury during an arrest and was also spit on by a demonstrator.

"These were no small pebbles," Davis said during a news conference Tuesday. All four officers were treated at hospitals and released.

The protest began at the Texas State Capitol, where grounds were closed, before moving through downtown Austin. Police said officers from both the Austin Police Department and the Texas Department of Public Safety worked together to block traffic and allow peaceful marching.

The "dynamic changed" when the crowd gathered at the JJ Pickle Federal Building and some protesters began spray-painting graffiti on the property. Officers issued dispersal orders and arrested two people for criminal mischief at that point.

RELATED | Texas governor says over a dozen people were arrested at ICE protests

"Shortly after tensions began to escalate and agitators began throwing rocks at officers, and one officer was spit on in the eye," Davis said.

Officers briefly withdrew to try to de-escalate the situation, but the crowd quickly advanced back toward the federal building, prompting police to deploy pepper balls toward the ground to saturate the area and prevent protesters from moving forward. The Texas Department of Public Safety then deployed CS tear gas to disperse the crowd.

Davis said they wanted to prevent protesters from breaking the glass at the federal building.

"Pepper ball is put on the ground and it allows the pepper spray to come up to disperse the crowds," Davis said.

KEYE

The crowd broke into smaller groups, with some throwing scooters and barricades into roadways and overturning water barriers before being contained near Seventh Street and Congress Avenue.

Austin police arrested eight people on charges including criminal mischief, harassment of a public servant, failure to obey lawful orders, resisting arrest, interference with public duties, riot, and reckless driving.

Those arrested by APD were identified as Conor Williams and Abigail Pore, both charged with criminal mischief for graffiti at the federal building; Alexandra Haddix, charged with failure to obey a lawful order; Cody Bates, charged with harassment of a public servant; Edgar Tovar, charged with reckless driving; Shaneal Harun, charged with riot and resisting arrest; Margarito Perez Montalvo, charged with interference with public duties and resisting arrest; and Hayden Perez, charged with failure to obey a lawful order and harassment of a public servant. (Photos/APD)

Those arrested by APD were identified as:

Conor Williams, charged with criminal mischief for graffiti at the federal building

Abigail Pore, charged with criminal mischief for graffiti at the federal building

Alexandra Haddix, charged with failure to obey a lawful order

Cody Bates, charged with harassment of a public servant

Edgar Tovar, charged with reckless driving

Shaneal Harun, charged with riot and resisting arrest

Margarito Perez Montalvo, charged with interference with public duties and resisting arrest

Hayden Perez, charged with failure to obey a lawful order and harassment of a public servant

The Texas Department of Public Safety arrested five additional people on various charges, including felony criminal mischief and resisting arrest, bringing the total arrests to 13.

The following individuals arrested by DPS and booked into the Travis County Jail were identified as: Alvin Jarret Talley (23) – felony criminal mischief and resisting arrest; Hiram Gilberto Garcia (27) – resisting arrest; Zakk Wylde Bonham (22) – felony criminal mischief and resisting arrest; Luis Davila (21) – felony criminal mischief; William Haraway (50) – assault by contact and public intoxication. (Photo: Texas DPS)

The following individuals arrested by DPS and booked into the Travis County Jail were identified as:

Alvin Jarret Talley (23) – felony criminal mischief and resisting arrest

Hiram Gilberto Garcia (27) – resisting arrest

Zakk Wylde Bonham (22) – felony criminal mischief and resisting arrest

Luis Davila (21) – felony criminal mischief

William Haraway (50) – assault by contact and public intoxication

"It is a fundamental right to protest," Davis said. "However, when that protest turns violent, when it turns to throwing rocks, throwing bottles at officers, at other members of the public and community, that will not be tolerated. Arrests will be made."

She said that the goal is to keep citizens and officers safe, which includes creating exits for people when they are asked to disperse.

The protesters at the federal building say they are part of a decentralized, anonymous movement that says they support confrontation in the "most legal means possible."

"Change will only happen when we keep putting pressure on the people in power - the police, ICE, politicians, everyone," said a protester who identified himself as Jason. "We have to actually stand our ground and go beyond just words."

Chief Davis says officers relied on drones and pepper ball projectiles during Monday night's protest. DPS also deployed tear gas.

Law enforcement expects more protests on Saturday.

"You're going to be seeing an increase in visibility of officers. We are going to be at 100% staffing for officers this weekend," said Chief Davis.

Chief Davis says officers will also be in the crowd on Saturday using "dialogue policing" to open a conversation with protesters and make sure they know the law and what police will and will not tolerate.

"They will be in the crowd, talking with people who are there for the protest. The goal is to make contact with people who are there before the actual protest," said Chief Davis.

Monday night, the front of the JJ Pickle Federal Building was covered with graffiti. By Tuesday morning, it had all been removed. The only remaining damage is to one door, which is now boarded up.

The protests were among several nationwide demonstrations related to immigration enforcement actions.