Title: 13 people taken into custody during federal raid at Newark seafood depot
Published: 2025-11-19 22:10:00+00:00

The raid began in the morning as heavily armed, masked federal agents arrived at the Ocean Seafood Depot in Newark.

NEWARK, New Jersey (WABC) -- Around two dozen federal agents descended on a wholesale seafood distribution site in Newark, New Jersey on Wednesday, taking 13 people into custody.

The raid began in the morning as heavily armed, masked federal agents, along with members of the FBI, made their presence known around the Ocean Seafood Depot, a food distributor on Adams Street.

Immigrant support groups quickly came to protest the raid which featured authorities in military gear and weapons on the ready.

This is the second time this year this location has been targeted for an immigration raid. The first, which came back in January, led to workers being escorted out of the building.

One worker says he was one of the 15 taken into custody Wednesday morning, but he was later released.

"I'm not doing well because of what happened," the man said in Spanish. "I don't feel well because of what happened, because of what happened to my colleagues. I cannot answer any questions."

Another man hasn't heard from his mom who worked at Ocean Seafood Depot. He has not heard from her since the morning raid.

"She told me police were here, so I came to see what was happening," the man said in Spanish.

When asked about the last time he talked to his mom, he said, when she texted him.

Tension ran high outside the building as workers and protesters came face to face, and the situation almost got out of hand.

Just after 12:30 p.m., a caravan of federal officers left the fish depot. Employees were allowed to go back inside, but the second raid this year at this location has left activists up in arms.

"This is just another message. This is just another stunt," said protester Kathy O'Leary. "This is them trying to terrorize the community."

DHS spokesperson released a statement saying:

"On November 19, while executing a search warrant as part of a criminal investigation, ICE arrested 13 illegal aliens employed at Ocean Seafood Depot in Newark, New Jersey.

"Worksite enforcement remains a cornerstone of our efforts to protect public safety, national security, and economic stability while rescuing individuals who may be victims of labor trafficking or exploitation.

"Additionally, the employment of illegal aliens also incentivizes dangerous and illegal practices, including social security fraud. As we saw during a recent worksite operation in Nebraska, many illegal aliens use stolen social security numbers and identities to unlawfully obtain wages, health benefits and employment authorization. Behind every stolen social security number uncovered these operations is a real American-mothers, fathers, students, and disabled workers-now facing devastating financial, emotional, and legal fallout."

----------

* Get Eyewitness News Delivered

* More New Jersey news

* Send us a news tip

* Download the abc7NY app for breaking news alerts

* Follow us on YouTube

Submit a tip or story idea to Eyewitness News

Have a breaking news tip or an idea for a story we should cover? Send it to Eyewitness News using the form below. If attaching a video or photo, terms of use apply.