JBLM-Based Planes Used in Military Deportation Flights and Flights to Guantánamo - Center for Human Rights Skip to main content The Henry M. Jackson School of International Studies Facebook Twitter Youtube Center for Human Rights, Jackson School of International Studies, University of Washington Give Now University of Washington Quick Links Home About People Annual Reports Projects Access to Information Immigrant Rights Observatory Indigenous Rights &amp; Environmental Sustainability Puyallup Family Data Reclamation Project Rethinking Punishment Strategies for Massage Parlor Workers’ Rights Unfinished Sentences Past Projects News + Events Latest News Events In the Media Publications Funding Human Rights Minor Donate JBLM-Based Planes Used in Military Deportation Flights and Flights to Guantánamo Silhouette of a Boeing C-17 Globemaster III plane, the type of plane used in many of the 2025 military deportation flights. February 19, 2025 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Since the Trump administration&#8217;s recent pivot to using military planes in addition to private charter flights to conduct deportation flights, UWCHR researchers have found that between the start of the flights on January 24, 2025, to February 13, 2025, most military deportation flights were by planes stationed at Joint Base Lewis-McChord (JBLM) in WA state. JBLM-based planes have also been used to transport detained immigrants to a detention camp at Guantánamo Bay. What’s the role of WA state military bases in fueling the inhumane deportation machine? &nbsp; &nbsp; Military deportation flights This Tacoma Tribune article by Craig Sailor first asked the question, &#8220;Are Trump administration deportation flights using planes from Joint Base Lewis-McChord?&#8221; and cited tail flash showing a green stripe for the &#8220;McChord&#8221; base. Using data collected by Witness at the Border, UWCHR researchers matched other planes involved in deportation flights with their home military base using the identifiers on their tail flash. In one example, this plane with tail number 099210 was stationed at JBLM on Feb 10, 2025. Two days later that plane was used to deport 119 people, of mostly Asian nationalities, to Panama. &nbsp; &nbsp; These removal flights, many of which have been conducted on JBLM-based planes, of immigrants of different nationalities to Panama (and at the time of writing this post, proposals to include El Salvador, Guatemala, and Costa Rica) ring alarms by sending people to countries where they do not have citizenship or personal ties and may be at the risk of grave human rights violations. Concerns over the conditions of people detained in Panama are documented by this New York Times article , “They were stripped of their passports and most of their cellphones, they said, and then locked in a hotel, barred from seeing lawyers and told they would soon be sent to a makeshift camp near the Panamanian jungle.” &nbsp; Military flights to Guantánamo Bay In addition to removal flights, UWCHR found that planes based out of JBLM have been used to transport detained immigrants to Guantánamo Bay. As of February 13, 3035 – of the five different military planes used for these flights, two have been planes belonging to JBLM. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; ProPublica reports the alarming conditions that people are being held under at Guantánamo: “They [family members of those detained] said the U.S. government has given them neither information about the detainees’ whereabouts nor the ability to speak with them. Attorneys say they have also been denied access.” In addition, this ACLU lawsuit cites of the lack of access to attorneys and the outside world, saying immigrants sent to Guantánamo are &#8220;effectively disappeared into a black box&#8221; and held incommunicado. The lawsuit states, &#8220;The government has also withheld information regarding the legal basis for these individuals’ transfers and confinement at Guantánamo, the likelihood of their continued detention, the immigration status of the transferred individuals, the nature of any legal proceedings against them, the conditions of their confinement, and the government’s treatment of and plans for these individuals.&#8221; This is essentially leaving the public without information on who is being held, why, and for how long. This week, a Seattle-area family identified a family member being held at Guantánamo Bay. The family recognized his name on a list of names published by the New York Times of people held at the detention camp. The Seattle Times covered the story: “&#8217;What they are saying is lies,&#8217; Medina Andrade’s sister told a small crowd of supporters and reporters at Sunday’s news conference on the steps of the federal courthouse in Seattle. &#8216;He was running from the very gang they are accusing him of being in.&#8217;” &nbsp; Explore more of UWCHR&#8217;s work monitoring ICE flights and detention conditions here . University of Washington Center for Human Rights, The Henry M. Jackson School of International Studies, University of Washington, 2023 Skagit Lane, Thomson Hall , Box 353650 Seattle, WA 98195-3650 Thomson Hall | Phone: (206) 685-3435 | Fax: (206) 685-0668 | Email: uwchr@uw.edu Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Youtube JSIS Business Office Diversity and Equity Committee JSIS Intranet Website Login Privacy Terms Make a Gift The Jackson School is a proud member of the Association of Professional Schools of International Affairs . &copy; 2026 Henry M. Jackson School of International Studies, University of Washington | Seattle, WA