Governor Ron DeSantis Highlights Success of Florida-Federal Immigration Partnership as Operation Tidal Wave Reaches More Than 10,000 Arrests | Executive Office of the Governor Skip to main content Executive Office of the Governor Ron DeSantis 46ᵀᴴ Governor of Florida Flag Status: Full Staff Main Governor First Lady Lieutenant Governor Leadership Newsroom Info Center Search Newsroom Home Newsroom Press Releases 2026 Governor Ron DeSantis Highlights Succ... Governor Ron DeSantis Highlights Success of Florida-Federal Immigration Partnership as Operation Tidal Wave Reaches More Than 10,000 Arrests January 5 2026 SANDERSON, Fla. — Governor Ron DeSantis announced today that Operation Tidal Wave has resulted in over 10,000 arrests, marking a significant milestone in Florida’s ongoing efforts to protect its citizens and support federal immigration enforcement. The initiative underscores the strength of Florida’s partnership with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and reflects the state’s commitment to public safety and the rule of law. “Since Operation Tidal Wave launched eight months ago, Florida law enforcement agencies have arrested more than 10,400 illegal aliens and worked with federal partners to remove them from our state and country,” said Governor Ron DeSantis. “This is the largest joint immigration enforcement operation in ICE’s history, and we’re proud that it will continue here in Florida.” “Many of the 10,000+ individuals arrested as part of Operation Tidal Wave were trying to prey on our children. Rest assured, our Statewide Prosecutors will ensure these criminals do serious time behind bars before we send them back to where they came from,” said Attorney General James Uthmeier. “I am grateful for the strong partnership between Florida and federal law enforcement. Florida leads, and I encourage other states to follow.” “Illegal immigration has plagued our nation for the better part of 50 years, but because of the leadership of Governor DeSantis and President Donald Trump, we are taking serious steps towa r ds rectifying this problem,” said Chief Financial Officer Blaise Ingoglia. “It is clear that the people of the United States and the people of Florida will not stand for criminal illegal aliens settling into our communities. Illegal immigrants should think twice before coming into our country and into our state, because if they are caught in Florida, they will be sent back home.” “Florida’s immigration enforcement efforts are delivering real results to the people of our state. Operation Tidal Wave is a prime example of those efforts, with more than 10,000 arrests made, marking a major milestone to protect public safety and uphold the rule of the law. Through our first-in-the-nation 287(g) partnerships, Florida is working hand-in-hand with the federal government to ensure that individuals in our country illegally – especially those with serious criminal convictions – are identified, detained, and processed appropriately,” said Florida Commissioner of Agriculture Wilton Simpson . “I’m grateful for the strong leadership of President Donald Trump and his commitment to enforcing our immigration laws and supporting states that are willing to step up, as well as Governor Ron DeSantis, who has made public safety a top priority here in Florida. Florida will continue to lead the way by putting the safety of our citizens first and standing firmly behind law enforcement at every level.” “This milestone shows what can be achieved when state and federal agencies come together with a shared mission,” said Florida Division of Emergency Management Executive Director Kevin Guthrie. “By combining resources, authorities, and expertise, Operation Tidal Wave has delivered tangible results and established a framework other states can replicate.” “Florida continues to show that it is the blueprint for immigration enforcement by demonstrating how coordinated, accountable partnerships can deliver real results statewide,” said Executive Director Dave Kerner . “The Florida Highway Patrol will continue to support as a force multiplier, ensuring that our statewide efforts remain coordinated, effective, and firmly aligned with our mission to protect Florida’s communities.” "As Florida’s lead domestic security and investigative agency, we've seen firsthand how the 287(g) program improves our ability to identify and address threats to our state,” said FDLE Commissioner Mark Glass . "Thanks to Governor DeSantis' leadership, FDLE remains committed to supporting these operations and protecting communities across the Free State of Florida." "We are a country of laws, and Florida is and always will be a law-and-order state," said Florida State Board of Immigration Enforcement Director Anthony Coker. "We will never apologize for doing anything in our power to make sure Floridians are safe." Operation Tidal Wave is the first program of its kind in the nation. Established under 287(g) agreements, the initiative allows Florida state agencies to work directly with ICE, exercising immigration authority that has historically been reserved for the federal government. Through this cooperation, and since the programs began in April 2025, state officers have been able to identify, detain, and process individuals in the country illegally, including those under final deportation orders and those with serious criminal convictions. The countries of origin of those arrested include the following: 3,435 from Guatemala 3,331 from Mexico 1,353 from Honduras 312 from El Salvador 312 from Venezuela 1,249 from elsewhere &nbsp; Throughout the operation, federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies worked in coordination across Florida to apprehend criminal illegal aliens. ICE leveraged field office assets in partnership with federal agencies to identify and target priority enforcement cases. Participating federal partners included ICE Homeland Security Investigations, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the FBI, the DEA, the ATF, and the U.S. Marshals Service. Under Governor Ron DeSantis’ leadership, the State of Florida provided extensive operational support through multiple state agencies to assist with the statewide enforcement effort. Numerous county sheriff offices also played a critical role in supporting ICE operations, including: Alachua County Baker County Bradford County Brevard County Clay County Hernando County Hillsborough County Indian River County Orange County Pinellas County St. Johns County Sumter County Volusia County Operation Tidal Wave is not only reducing the number of individuals who pose risks to Florida’s communities but is also setting a precedent for how states can take a proactive role in supplementing federal immigration enforcement. Florida’s model demonstrates that when states act decisively and coordinate with federal partners, public safety is strengthened and law and order are preserved. For more news and information on Florida’s efforts to support immigration enforcement and protect public safety, follow the Florida Division of Emergency Management on X at @FLSERT . Members of the public can report crimes and suspicious activity by calling 1-866-DHS-2-ICE (866-347-2423) or by completing ICE’s online tip form. Category All Agency University Other Headed By All Secretary Director President Commissioner Chairman Attorney General Surgeon General Chief Financial Officer Adjutant General Sort Agency Name A → Z Agency Name Z → A Acronym A → Z Acronym Z → A Search Reset News Menu Press Releases Executive Orders Proclamations State of Emergency Press Kit Keywords Advanced Search Keywords to Exclude Content Type All News Pages People Items per page 20 50 100 Search Executive Office of Governor Ron DeSantis . 400 S Monroe St . Tallahassee, FL 32399