Largest joint immigration operation in Florida history leads to 1,120 criminal alien arrests during weeklong operation | ICE Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( Lock Locked padlock ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. --> En Español Contact Us Quick Links INFO Due to the lapse in federal funding, this website will not be actively managed. More info --> Watch Live at 11:30 a.m. ET: Results of Nationwide Law Enforcement Effort Press Conference ICE Check-in for Aliens Get information about how to check in with your local ICE Office here . Reportándose con ICE: Obtenga información sobre cómo reportarse a su oficina local de ICE aquí . View in other languages Menu Call 1-866-DHS-2-ICE to report suspicious activity Report Crime Main Navigation " class="we-megamenu-nolink" title="Click here to open the About Us menu"> About Us Mission Who We Are Leadership History Information Library Career Opportunities ICE Fallen Officers Fact Sheets Learn facts about U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Learn More About ICE " class="we-megamenu-nolink" title="Click here to open the Enforcement and Removal Operations menu"> Enforcement and Removal Operations Identify and Arrest Criminal Alien Program Fugitive Operations Law Enforcement Partnerships 287g Program Immigration Fraud Prosecutions Detain Immigration Detainers Detention Facilities Health Service Corps Detention Management Facility Inspections Family Residential Standards Remove Removal Recalcitrant Countries Self-Deportation Immigration Enforcement Frequently Asked Questions ERO Statistics Dashboard How ICE Enforces Immigration Laws ICE identifies and apprehends removable aliens, detains these individuals and removes illegal aliens from the United States. Learn more about ERO ICE Check-in Learn more about how to check in with a local ICE office Get information about how to check in with your local ICE Office here . ERO e File A uniform platform for the filing of electronic G-28s with ERO and the scheduling of legal visits through ERO eFile’s Detention Facility Appointment Scheduler (DFAS). Learn more about ERO eFile " class="we-megamenu-nolink" title="Click here to open the Homeland Security Investigations menu"> Homeland Security Investigations Operational Priorities Protecting National Security Preventing Crimes of Exploitation Operation Identify Ensuring Public Safety Upholding the Law in Global Trade Investigating Cybercrime Combating Financial Crime Investigations Outreach Programs Partnerships Centers &amp; Labs Recognize &amp; Report Crime Securing the Homeland Combating cross-border criminal activity is a critical component of the overall safety, security and well-being of our nation. Learn more about HSI News about HSI Student and Exchange Visitor Program SEVP is a part of the National Security Investigations Division and acts as a bridge for government organizations that have an interest in information on nonimmigrants whose primary reason for coming to the United States is to be students. Learn more about SEVP " class="we-megamenu-nolink" title="Click here to open the Newsroom menu"> Newsroom News Releases and Statements Latest High-Profile Arrests Feature Stories Multimedia Social Media Speeches and Testimonies ERO Statistics Dashboard ICE's ERO officers uphold United States immigration laws by focusing on individuals who present the greatest risk to national security, public safety or border security. View the most recent statistics 2024 Year in Review ICE’s FY 2024 Annual Report View the annual report Media Inquiries Breadcrumb ICE Newsroom Largest joint immigration operation in Florida history leads to 1,120 criminal alien arrests during weeklong operation Share Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Email this Page Print this Page Follow Us @EROMiami May 1, 2025 Miami , FL , United States Enforcement and Removal Largest joint immigration operation in Florida history leads to 1,120 criminal alien arrests during weeklong operation Operation is first-of-its kind partnership between federal and state law enforcement organizations MIAMI — U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, along with law enforcement partners from the Department of Homeland Security, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, and the state of Florida, led a first-of-its-kind statewide operation April 21 to April 26 that netted 1,120 criminal illegal alien arrests — the largest number in a single state in one week in ICE’s history. Sixty-three percent of those arrested had existing criminal arrests or convictions. Arrests included 378 criminal illegal aliens with final orders of removal issued by an immigration judge. Officers arrested various violent offenders, gang members, sex offenders, fugitives from justice and those who pose significant public safety threats. Arrests include members of several different notoriously violent foreign terrorist organizations such as MS-13, Tren de Aragua, Brown Pride Aztecas, Barrio Azteca, Surenos (sur-13) and 18th Street Gang. The countries of origin of those arrested include the following:&nbsp; 437 from Guatemala 280 from Mexico 153 from Honduras 48 from Venezuela 24 from El Salvador 178 from elsewhere Those arrested who have final orders of removal or returned to the United States illegally after being deported are subject to immediate removal from the country. The remaining aliens are in ICE custody awaiting due process before an immigration judge or pending travel arrangements for removal. “Last week’s operational success of arresting more than 1,100 criminal illegal aliens was truly a collaborative whole-of-government effort by our federal, state and local law enforcement partners in Florida,” said ICE Deputy Director Madison Sheahan. “Every day, our officers take to the streets and put their lives on the line to apprehend and remove dangerous criminal aliens, transnational gang members and foreign fugitives who have illegally entered the U.S. We are united in our determination to restore integrity to our nation’s immigration system and enhance public safety for all Americans.” The state of Florida leads the nation with 287(g) partnerships. This force-multiplying program is named for Section 287(g)(1) of the Immigration and Nationality Act , which authorizes ICE to delegate specified immigration officer functions to state and local law enforcement officials under the agency’s direction and supervision. “I’ve insisted that Florida be the tip of the spear when it comes to state support of federal immigration enforcement. The success of Operation Tidal Wave is proof of our commitment," said Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis. “Florida is proud to work closely with the Trump administration and help deliver on the 2024 mandate from America that our borders be secured and our immigration laws be followed. We will continue to engage in broad interior enforcement efforts. Thank you to DHS, ICE, CBP, Florida Department of Law Enforcement, Florida Highway Patrol, and Florida’s Fish and Wildlife Commission, Florida National Guard, Florida’s Division of Emergency Management, and everyone involved for your contributions to this effort.” “Dangerous criminals have no place in our country. We will apply CBP’s collective intelligence and operational capabilities to target those here illegally who endanger our citizens and the American way of life,” said Miami Sector Border Patrol Chief Patrol Agent Jeffrey Dinise. “Collaborative enforcement efforts such as Operation Tidal Wave, with our DHS and state of Florida law enforcement partners, leverages each of our unique authorities to protect against threats. We look forward to continuing the vital partnership with the State of Florida as we all work toward our shared goal of keeping our communities safe and our nation secure.” During the operation, federal, state and local partners helped arrest criminal illegal aliens around Florida. ICE used field office resources, alongside federal partners, to identify priority targets for enforcement action. Law enforcement partners included ICE Homeland Security Investigations, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the FBI, the DEA, the ATF and the U.S. Marshals Service. The state of Florida, under DeSantis’ direction, provided significant assistance during the statewide operation from multiple agencies. In addition, the following sheriff’s offices also provided significant assistance to ICE during the operation:&nbsp; Alachua County. Baker County. Brandford County. Brevard County. Clay County. Hernando County. Hillsborough County. Indian River County. Orange County. Pinellas County. St. John’s County. Sumter County. Volusia County. Many of the criminal aliens arrested during the operation have illegally entered and been removed from the U.S. numerous times and been convicted of multiple criminal offenses. A few of the most egregious examples include: Ciro Ramon Castaneda Perez, a criminal illegal alien from Venezuela, and known member of the violent gang Tren de Aragua, was arrested at his residence in Holly Hill. On April 12, the Port Orange Police Department pulled over Castaneda-Perez for a traffic violation and found cocaine residue and paraphernalia in his vehicle. Castaneda-Perez has a final order of removal issued by an immigration judge. Carlos Eduardo Perez Perez, a criminal illegal alien and suspected associate of the gang Tren de Aragua, was arrested April 25 at the ICE Enforcement and Removal Operations Tampa field office. On July 19, 2024, Perez was first encountered and arrested by U.S. Border Patrol at a checkpoint near Sierra Blanca, Texas, after he illegally entered the U.S. without parole or inspection. An immigration judge ordered Perez removed to Venezuela Aug. 26, 2024. Rafael Juarez Cabrera, a criminal illegal alien from Guatemala and documented MS-13 gang member, was arrested after being convicted of illegal reentry by a previously removed alien. He has been removed three times prior. He will remain in custody pending prosecution for illegal reentry after deportation Luis Melito Gonzalez Arrellanno, a criminal illegal alien from Mexico and active member of the Brown Pride Aztecas gang, was arrested with a criminal history that includes armed carjacking, firing a weapon, fraud and a conviction for illegal reentry after deportation. He has a final order of removal. Aron Isaak Morazan Izaguirre, a criminal illegal alien from Honduras, is an active known or suspected terrorist as a member of the 18th Street Gang. Izaguirre is a two-time illegal reentry and will remain in custody pending removal. Miguel Rodriguez Gonzalez, a criminal illegal alien from Honduras, is an active member of the Barrio Azteca gang. His criminal history includes assault, burglary, possession of marijuana, fraud and a conviction of illegal reentry after deportation. He will be held in custody pending his removal from the country. For more news and information on ICE’s efforts to enforce our nation’s immigration laws and bolster public safety, national security and border security in Florida, follow us on X at @EROMiami . Members of the public can report crimes and suspicious activity by dialing 866-DHS-2-ICE (866-347-2423) or completing the online tip form . Video b-roll of immigration enforcement action can be found here . Updated: 06/13/2025 Return to top Media Inquiries For media inquiries about ICE activities, operations, or policies, contact the ICE Office of Public Affairs at ICEMedia@ice.dhs.gov . About Us Enforcement and Removal Operations Homeland Security Investigations Newsroom ICE Contact Center Report suspicious activity: 1-866-DHS-2-ICE ICE.gov An official website of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security ICE USWDS Footer Links About ICE Accessibility FOIA Requests Privacy Policy DHS.gov Archive No FEAR Act Data Site Links Performance Reports Inspector General The White House DHS Components USA.gov Mobile Menu Bar Menu Search En Español Contact Main Navigation on Mobile Devices About Us Mission Who We Are Leadership History Information Library Career Opportunities ICE Fallen Officers Enforcement and Removal Operations Identify and Arrest Criminal Alien Program Fugitive Operations Law Enforcement Partnerships 287g Program Immigration Fraud Prosecutions Detain Immigration Detainers Detention Facilities Health Service Corps Detention Management Facility Inspections Family Residential Standards Remove Recalcitrant Countries Removal Self-Deportation Immigration Enforcement Frequently Asked Questions ERO Statistics Dashboard Homeland Security Investigations Operational Priorities Protecting National Security Preventing Crimes of Exploitation Operation Identify Ensuring Public Safety Upholding the Law in Global Trade Investigating Cybercrime Combating Financial Crime Investigations Outreach Programs Partnerships Centers &amp; Labs Recognize &amp; Report Crime Newsroom News Releases and Statements Latest High-Profile Arrests Feature Stories Multimedia Social Media Speeches and Testimonies Search Search Home Who We Are Newsroom Information Library Contact ICE Careers En Español