Title: How a city in Nebraska is recovering after the state's largest worksite immigration raid
Authors: Https, Media-Cldnry.S-Nbcnews.Com Image Upload Newscms, Nicole Acevedo, Nicole Acevedo Is A News Reporter For Nbc News.
Published: 2025-06-15 14:11:48.781000+00:00

OMAHA, Neb. — Every seat in the waiting area of Glenn Valley Foods was occupied with people filling out job applications early Thursday afternoon, two days after the meatpacking plant became the center of the largest worksite immigration raid in the state of Nebraska so far this year.

Dozens of prospective employees, many of them Spanish speakers, had been coming in and out of the plant all day. Some were hoping to land a new job; others were coming in for training.

The scene gave the company’s president, Chad Hartmann, a glimmer of hope amid the chaos that ensued after Tuesday's raid purged roughly half of his staff — many of whom had been longtime employees of the company, which has been processing boxed beef for more than 15 years.

Hartmann had never seen or experienced a raid before. He is finding out in real time that “there’s no playbook” on how to move forward after one, Hartmann told NBC News.

The process of re-hiring new workers, Hartmann said, feels like asking someone to replace a family member. “You cannot, in my mind,” he said. “They were part of our family, and they were taken away.”

Seventy-six people working at Glenn Valley Foods were arrested by federal immigration authorities Tuesday morning, the Department of Homeland Security told NBC News in an email.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement said the arrests were part of an enforcement operation to execute a federal search warrant in connection to an investigation into “the large-scale employment of aliens without legal work authorization.”

As of Friday night, criminal charges had not been filed against those arrested in the raid. About a dozen of them have already been deported or transferred out of state. At least 63 others were taken to the Lincoln County Detention Center. The county’s sheriff, Jerome Kramer, said none of the detainees are “violent offenders” and he hopes to help them “complete the process to correct their work status and reunite them with families or employers.”