Immigration raid rocks Nebraska meatpacking plant; protesters and law enforcement clash - Flatwater Free Press
Skip to the content
Close
Stories
Show sub menu
Statewide
Metro
Greater Nebraska
Historically Excluded
Omaha News & Events
Documenters
Flatwater Explains
All stories
About
Show sub menu
Contact Us
Staff
Mission & What We Cover
Board
Jobs
Ethics & coverage policy
Resources
Show sub menu
Soil Samples – Free Lead Testing
Nebraska Steakhouses
Public Payrolls
2025 Omaha/Lincoln Voter Guides
Omaha News Academy
Support
Show sub menu
Donate
Subscribe
Sponsorship
Show sub menu
Become a Sponsor
From Our Sponsors
Supporters
Events
Show sub menu
Flatwater Festival 2025
Shop
Publish our work
Got a tip?
Subscribe
Donate
© 2026
Flatwater Free Press
Facebook
Instagram
X
LinkedIn
Blue Sky
TikTok
Editor’s note: Earlier reports indicated that U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement conducted raids at multiple locations in Omaha. ICE has since confirmed worksite enforcement operations at one location. The story has been updated.
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement carried out its largest Nebraska workplace raid of the current presidential administration on Tuesday.
Federal authorities detained more than 70 people during a raid on the Glenn Valley Foods meatpacking plant near 68th and J streets, ICE said in a statement.
The large-scale raid also involved the FBI, the Drug Enforcement Administration, the U.S. Marshals Service and Omaha police, according to the plant’s president.
It led to confusion inside the plant and anger outside of it, as some protesters clashed with law enforcement. It shocked company executives, who said they’d used the federal government’s system to verify the legal status of their employees. And it also set off a fresh round of fear and rumors that plants and stores elsewhere in Nebraska had been raided, or were soon to be. Those reports couldn’t be verified by the Flatwater Free Press on Tuesday evening.
ICE executed the federal search warrant on Glenn Valley Foods “based on an ongoing criminal investigation into the large-scale employment of aliens without authorization to work in the United States,” the agency said in a statement. During the raid, an undocumented person from Honduras attempted to assault federal agents with a boxcutter, but no agents were injured, an ICE spokesperson said.
It’s not yet known where the workers were taken, but Glenn Valley employees leaving the scene told the Flatwater Free Press they saw dozens of their colleagues being led by agents into a white bus.
Tensions escalated between protesters and ICE as a procession of SUVs carrying federal agents left the plant after the raid. Several protesters cursed at law enforcement, jumped on moving vehicles and threw rocks and debris at the cars, shattering one window.
Agents in an SUV appeared at one point to accelerate and make contact with a protester blocking the road. They also hopped out of cars to push protesters out of the way. They did not appear to arrest any protesters on the scene.
The raid shocked Glenn Valley Foods President Chad Hartmann, who said company leaders had “no notification, no idea whatsoever” that a raid was coming.
Glenn Valley, which produces frozen beef, chicken and pork products, has about 140 workers at its Omaha plant, Hartmann said.
The warrant said 107 of those workers would be investigated, Hartmann said. Many of those employees were cleared, he said. “I just don’t know how many were not.”
Hartmann said immigration officials collected each of the plant employees’ I-9 forms in February and reviewed them. He said the company uses the federal system to check the identity and legal status of employees, known as E-Verify.
“We’ve done everything we’re supposed to do as a company,” Hartmann said.
Several plant workers, including Marisol Mejía, streamed out of the plant after agents had verified their legal status.
Marisol Mejía, a meat packer at Glenn Valley Foods in South Omaha, estimated that federal agents led about 150 of her colleagues without documents into white buses with their hands zip tied Tuesday morning, June 10, 2025. Photo by Jeremy Turley/Flatwater Free Press
Mejía said federal agents separated the workers into two groups in the plant’s cafeteria: those with documents proving their legal status and those without.
Agents fingerprinted all of the workers, most of whom hail from Guatemala or the Mexican state of Guerrero, she said, then led those without documents into a white bus with their hands zip tied.
Natasha Reyes left work to bring legal documents to Mejía, who is her cousin.
From outside the plant, Reyes said, she saw uniformed ICE and DEA agents with their faces covered by masks, as well as some Omaha police officers.
Reyes grew emotional as she spoke about the raid, noting that those arrested have family and friends who depend on them for survival.
“I don’t think that anyone should be punished for going to work,” Reyes said. “It seems like no one has compassion anymore.”
A man stands outside the entrance to the Glenn Valley Foods plant in south Omaha Tuesday, June 10, 2025. Glenn Valley’s president said company leaders had “no notification, no idea whatsoever” that an immigration raid was coming, adding that they use the federal system to check the identity and legal status of employees. Photo by Abiola Kosoko for the Flatwater Free Press
Karla Cabrera’s aunt, who has been in Omaha nearly 20 years, was one of the Glenn Valley workers detained and loaded onto the bus by immigration authorities.
Cabrera, standing outside the plant, said she received a call from her aunt around 9:30 a.m. after agents entered the plant, many wearing masks that covered their faces. Her aunt then left her phone on speakerphone in her pocket, so that Cabrera could hear the commotion inside. Workers hid in the warehouse, she said.
Cabrera’s aunt told her that officers were demanding that workers sign a document, but the document wasn’t translated into Spanish, so many didn’t know what it said.
Cabrera said her aunt had no idea where she’s headed.
Anna Hernandez, an Omaha advocate working with the League of United Latin American Citizens, said her organization believed that some workers detained on Tuesday had work permits approved under President Joe Biden that recently were rescinded under President Donald Trump.
“This is psychological warfare,” Hernandez said. “Families are being broken here.”
State Sen. Margo Juarez, a Democrat whose district includes Glenn Valley, said Tuesday that she went to the Heartland Workers Center near 24th and O streets earlier that morning. The organization had prepared folders with information for workers.
Protesters line the street as a convoy of law enforcement vehicles attempts to leave the Glenn Valley Foods plant in south Omaha Tuesday, June 10, 2025. Photo by Abiola Kosoko for the Flatwater Free Press
Juarez said the raids will have far-reaching impacts: Children will lose parents and landlords will lose tenants. What frustrates her most, she said, is that Congress hasn’t passed reforms needed for these immigrants.
“There is no doubt that these employers need the workers, right?” Juarez said. “Now look at the impact it’s going to have on all of us — not just them directly, it’s going to ripple from there. It’s an extreme frustration of mine.”
State Sen. Dunixi Guereca, a Democrat who represents parts of South Omaha, said the big question right now is where ICE is going to take people. Right now he said the focus is on getting people resources and making sure families with detained loved ones reach out for support.
Guereca, the son of Mexican immigrants, said South Omaha has been a “gateway to America for over a century.”
“This is a place where people come to seek their American dream, work hard and raise their families in peace,” he said. “These types of outdated tactics do nothing but spread fear.”
Mexican Consular Jorge Espejel said he was frustrated that federal authorities didn’t notify the consulate of the raid or to let consulate officials speak with Mexican citizens caught up in the raid.
Protesters kick a vehicle leaving the scene of a large-scale immigration raid Tuesday, June 10, 2025. Several protesters cursed at law enforcement, jumped on moving vehicles and threw rocks and debris at the cars. Photo by Abiola Kosoko for the Flatwater Free Press
Omaha Mayor John Ewing expressed sympathy for the families impacted by Tuesday’s raid, adding that he hopes those detained are treated fairly by the legal system.
The Democrat, who took office this week, said in a Wednesday press conference that ICE raids create uncertainty and fear that hold Omaha back from “being as productive and as welcoming as I would like us to be.”
“We’ve heard a lot of talk, but we don’t have anything specific that tells us this is going to happen again,” Ewing said. “We’re hoping it doesn’t obviously because of the chaos it creates in the community.”
He called on Congress to provide a path to citizenship for “hardworking people in these communities.”
Republican Nebraska Gov. Jim Pillen offered support for the ICE raid, noting that former President Joe Biden’s immigration policy “absolutely failed the American people for four years.”
“We have to address the issue of illegal immigration, and I support the work of our federal partners to ensure that the law is followed and I remain supportive of President Trump’s efforts to secure the border,” Pillen said in a Wednesday statement.
Omaha Police Chief Todd Schmaderer said Wednesday his department received a vague heads-up about 10 days ago that ICE and Homeland Security may be coming to town.
OPD officers played only a “peripheral” role during the raid by providing traffic control after federal authorities requested their help on Tuesday morning, Schmaderer said.
When asked how OPD’s cooperation with ICE could affect public trust in local police, Schmaderer said Omahans should feel completely comfortable dialing 911 in an emergency regardless of their legal status.
“I can ensure the public that the Omaha Police Department will not be involved in checking immigration status,” Schmaderer said. “I need victims to come forward. They will not come forward if they’re fearful (of) Omaha Police Department being immigration officers.”
Douglas County Sheriff Aaron Hanson said Tuesday morning that Homeland Security contacted his office roughly a week ago to help with an investigation.
The federal agency typically does not share details about its plans, Hanson said. Instead, he said, they let agencies like Hanson’s know where they will be, when they will be there and what kind of help they need. Hanson said his deputies were helping to control traffic and “maintain safety” in the area where the federal agents were operating.
Law enforcement raided the Glenn Valley Foods plant in south Omaha Tuesday, June 10, 2025. Along with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the FBI, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the U.S. Marshals Service also participated in the sweep. Photo by Abiola Kosoko for the Flatwater Free Press
Tuesday’s raid was the largest documented immigration enforcement action in Nebraska since 2018, when ICE officers
raided a tomato greenhouse and potato processing plant
in O’Neill. That raid — which targeted 17 people for exploiting illegal workers, fraud and money laundering — led to the arrest of 133 people for immigration violations.
The raid at Glenn Valley came less than a week after immigration sweeps in Los Angeles triggered protests that saw some protesters clash with police,
the Associated Press reported
. President Trump then mobilized the California National Guard over the objection of the state’s governor.
Protests have
since spread to cities across the country
.
At the intersection of 33rd and L streets in South Omaha, people started gathering Tuesday afternoon to protest the immigration actions earlier in the day. By 5 p.m., the crowd had grown into the hundreds. They waved Mexican and American flags and held signs with slogans like “Abolish ICE” and “We are and Always Will Be a Nation of immigrants.”
Megan Stanek, who attended the protest with her 9-year-old son, said that she came to show her support for the migrant community.
“I work at a school with a big migrant population, this is absolutely going to affect some of those kids I work with,” she said.
Earlier in the day, a crowd of Lincoln residents gathered in front of the City-County Building for an impromptu protest against ICE enforcement action, also holding signs supporting immigrants. One protester, Celeste Timberlake, brought a gong and struck it as passing cars honked.
Sophie James, a member of the Isanti Dakotah Nation of Nebraska, attended the Lincoln protest and described the federal government’s immigration enforcement actions as hypocritical.
“Once America acknowledges that they took this land illegally, and wrongfully, they can’t say who belongs here and who doesn’t,” James said.
Flatwater staff members Sara Gentzler, Joshua Shimkus, Chris Bowling, Bob Glissmann, Emily Wolf and Shelby Rickert contributed to this report.
Share this story
Close
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Copy Link
Post date
June 10, 2025
Post categories
In
Historically Excluded
,
Metro
,
Omaha
Share
Jeremy Turley covers the Omaha metro area. He worked at newspapers across the Midwest before moving to Nebraska. Most recently, he shivered through several frigid winters in Bismarck, North Dakota, where he covered state government and the COVID-19 pandemic for Forum News Service. He is a graduate of the University of Missouri and a native of suburban Chicago. His hobbies include disc golfing, collecting campaign buttons and using too many em dashes — or so his editors say.
Natalia Alamdari is an FFP senior reporter and the Seacrest Greater Nebraska reporter. Since 2021, her reporting has taken her across Nebraska, where she has told stories on contentious board meetings in Brownville, quinceañera shops in Columbus and bison in the Sandhills. She's also traveled to Poland to tell the stories of displaced Ukrainian refugees. Her reporting on Nebraska prisons won a 2023 Great Plains Journalism Award. Previously, Alamdari worked at newspapers in Missouri, Texas and Delaware. Working at the Flatwater Free Press is a return to Nebraska — in college, she spent a summer interning at the Omaha World-Herald. She is a graduate of the University of Missouri-Columbia and native Texan.
58 Comments
Thanks for the coverage. This will hurt everybody in Omaha.
Why? Will it hurt. They need to go back and come back the right way.
Amy – This is a half-baked “solution” that our politicians have come up with in order to save face. They are supposed to be leading us with ways to fix our immigration crisis, but instead of addressing the root causes (worldwide crises, inefficient immigration process, etc) they are putting on a dog and pony show for their cult followers.
I remember when Obama was doing this to many meat packing plants.
Obama gave them their day in court and due process. Trump isn’t doing that.
No Papers, they go back.
They can return when they have their papers in order. Someone explain to me why that’s wrong?
At one time, Spain owned all the land west of the Mississippi River. Every day Americans crossed the River illegally in search of a better way of life. Your myopic view is ridiculous and clueless. Those Americans moving west had no “papers.” Please don’t suggest this is different now.
Yes.
Why no consequences for the employer?
Because they thought they were obeying the law? But there are quotas now. Miller wants 300 arrests a day. Tough luck for the employer, eh?
No Papers, they go back.
They can return when they have their papers in order. Someone explain to me why that’s wrong?
Because the system is flawed and they may never get back in to be with their families. The industries in our country have been complicit in not wanting to reform the immigration system so they can take advantage of undocumented employees. The system is broken not the people. Fix that!
I would say this article had an agenda and doesn’t cover all sides. If you’re a sex trafficker you need to be arrested, a molester a thief a murderer you need to be arrested. If those arrested are there such good people bleeding hearts should take them home and put them in their own home . People that are here legally unfortunately you get caught up and the bad part. And protesters that try to block official vehicles those people need to be arrested. Who do you think you are breaking the law! You have no idea who you’re protecting! Let ICE do they’re job!
100 percent
ICE is disappearing people, citizens and undocumented people. This is not how things are supposed done in this country. The government is breaking the law.
You are absolutely right. Think of the harm being done when the government, ICE, disappeared MS 13 suspects to a high security prison in El Salvador without due process, which means without even knowing all those they took were really MS 13 gang members. They were suspects, not proven gangsters. They were not properly identified and vetted by a court of law. This is REQUIRED BY OUR CONSTITUTION UNDER THE FIFTH AMENDMENT.
In the March 15 deportation of alleged MS 13 gang members originally from Venezuela who were sent without due process or court orders to the notorious Terrorist Confinement Center prison in El Salvador, ICE itself became the law breakers. While holding these detainees to board flights to this prison, ICE disobeyed a federal court order not to remove them and without due process took them to El Salvador anyway. Because this deportation and imprisonment were not legally justified by due process and court order, it could be alleged that ICE kidnapped these people and then sent them to a horrible Gulag. It could also be alleged that ICE committed other crimes such as using excess force, battery, false imprisonment, and violation of fundamental constitutional rights—even if illegal immigrants. If they could arrest these people and disappear them without taking them to court first, then they and anyone else in the government could do the same to you, me, or anyone they saw fit to jail, citizen or not. If someone in ICE didn’t like you for some reason, he could arrest you and send you to El Salvador out of spite and no one would ever know where you were. If the government is lawless, as you point out, then no one is safe and citizens must take law into their own hands to survive. We then have chaos.
The other issue is that these undocumented immigrants would not be here if not for the negligence of Congress who for about 40 years has looked the other way or failed to create legislation to deal with illegal immigration, paths to citizenship, and the needs of farms and businesses here to fill jobs. As a result, we have hard working, decent, family oriented undocumented immigrants living here, getting established, having kids, paying taxes, only to be arrested by ICE and deported. Employers and the communities where these immigrants lived are also harmed, as well as the families who relied on these employed immigrants are themselves harmed because the U.S. finally started to enforce law and deal with illegal immigration, at least half way, but now leaving everyone coming up short and no real good coming of it.
So, the Trump plan is not a solution, it’s merely a show of force, a scare tactic, but served on the wrong people, illegal immigrants here working, settled in, doing good, with others who depend upon them, including American citizens and businesses. This is worse than doing nothing! Many of these people should be given at least residency status, and ICE under Miller and Trump should focus their efforts using our taxes on apprehending actual criminals here committing crimes, but this takes hard work, investigative skills, and obeying our laws and Constitution, especially due process, not putting on a big and very expensive show to dupe Americans into thinking the Trump administration is enforcing our laws when they are actually breaking them. This is also worse than doing nothing because wasteful and a fraud perpetrated to gain political power and approval. It’s hypocritical.
1000% Agreed
YES
LET THEM DO THEIR JOB.
STAND IN THEIR WAY.
GET ARRESTED.
Read the article. Since you don’t seem capable it said the employer used the system, E-Verify, to check the status of all applicants. They did what the government asked the to do.
Agree, if the employer knew the workers were illegal and using stolen identities, there should and most likely will be consequences.
If they did their due diligence and were fooled by job applicants with stolen identities, how can they be at fault?
They may not known so until after the raid
They didn’t just think they were obeying the law! They obtained verification documents and completed form I-9, and used e-Verify to make sure the people were using legitimate documents. That is ALL that an employer is required to do.
The employer said they followed the government guidelines for checking IDs when employing. One ICE agent told the CEO that the system was “broken” but did not clarify. One person in the raids said they had 150 people and separated them into two groups- one that had proof on them and one that did not. Her cousin brought her ID from home so she did not have to go, but those without their papers or proof had to get on the bus. They were also asked to sign something in English that many could not read. This is a clear violation of their rights. Also the ICE agents were fully masked…why?
Very biased point of view. What you neglected to mention is that they use identity theft so they can bypass the E verification. As a journalist I’m sure you were aware but somehow that didn’t get in your report. Everything is skewed to fit your narrative. If your going to report do so with ALL the facts, even the ones that you (as a reporter) may not agree with so the people reading can make an informed decision.
Why are you acting like that is groundbreaking? It’s literally understood that they are undocumented, largely. Why don’t you understand that WE DON’T CARE because these are people that are apart of our community, that are love and are loved! All of this is unnecessary and cruel.
they don’t have a truthful bone in their boby also good luck to the clowns throwing rocks they just entered the FAFO stage
I would have loved seeing agents arresting all of them that damaged vehicles, then check their status, and deport all who were illegal. They need to try getting away with that stuff in their birth countries.
What evidence do you have that they used stolen identifies? Reporters only print what they can prove, not what they think might be true or heard on some random twitter account.
If the employer’s claims are true, then they would HAVE to have been using identification that rightly belongs to a legal resident.
That was ICE’s justification when the owners of the company said they checked citizenship according to the law.
I agree. ID. theft, mostly. of. Omaha. citizens. , and this was to fool E Verify. This hurts these legal mostly brown. Nebr citizens—-this has greatly hurt families that did the correct. immigration process, have jobs, children and work hard. These loud politicians, media, and terrorists in the public streets, , on vehicles, are. the cause of problems.
I have always wondered what happens to the taxes paid, like social security, when a false ID (SS#) is used? Are taxes being paid into the SS account of someone else and would not that someone else notice since the SS Administration is constantly sending out individualized updates and calculations?
Typical wanna be journalism, Lib article. Flat water Free Press states that they “Hold Truth to Power” investigative journalism. No mention of Identity Theft ???? You mean withhold some of the truth? Clowns
Most folks don’t realize it is a serious crime to give a known illegal alien a ride to lunch. 8 U.S. Code § 1324
And ID fraud is a brutal and vicious crime.
Every illegal I-9, every phony Social Security number, every State ID/Driver’s License that is fake, is a crime. And every time the illegal alien uses those, it’s a separate count, with decades of jail time possible.
DETECT
DETAIN
DEPORT
Are you going to completely disregard that the employers of these illegal individuals are assisting in creating new identities for them? Would be a great story if you included all of the facts and didn’t try to suppress the truth. This is why people don’t trust the media and independent journalism. You obviously have a narrative to stick to. Shame on you for insulting our intelligence.
Where is your proof of that?
There was people therebilly who should have been arrested also
This article is biased and full of holes
Filing out an I-9 with someone else’s SS# is a Federal crime. As that to being illegal. It’s perfectly simple, don’t illegal enter a country, try it with any country on the planet and see what happens.
The best thing for these illegals to do is to go back to their country now, voluntarily, rather than going through being deported. If you leave, you can apply to come back through legal immigration. but if you get deported you can never come back legally.
Legal immigrants also oppose those who come here illegally, that’s why many Latinos voted Republican. 70% of Americans oppose the illegal border crossing and want the 10 Million illegals to leave either voluntarily or deported.
Might be less disruptive to businesses if ICE enforced ALL the immigration laws. If E verify is that easy to abuse, would start by fixing that.
All you idiots crying about the journalist not including “facts” about identity theft. The journalist went there yesterday while it was transpiring or shortly after. Gathered a few facts, grabbed a couple names, and wrote their story that probably had a deadline in a couple hours. Do you really think that anyone their wanted to sit down for any kind of extended interviews and answer questions about identity theft? You guys need to grow up. That’s not what their story was about. They didn’t omit facts or lie, they simply reported on the facts they were able to quickly gather about the event. Go cry to your mommy about how reporters don’t do everything YOU want. I’m sure they won’t care either. Morons.
Since these round ups just happen, how could the FFP be expected to know who was arrested and what they are charged with? This article seems to be a straightforward report of what happened. I suspects bots or trolls are at work in your comment section.
If you’re here illegally, you are walking all over the immigrants that do it the right way. nice job of biased reporting.
This is what a diverse majority of Americans from both sides of the political aisle and all walks of life voted for on November 5, 2024. All of the people that voted that day for Donald Trump are still glad they voted for Donald Trump on November 5, 2024. Anybody that says that we need illegal immigrants in our nation is an outright liar!
The FFP is ideologically owned. Ironically, it’s progressive lefties who believed that there would never be consequences for open borders who created this mess. There were always going to be consequences. Here they are. This is on your side as much as it is the big orange monster.
This FFP “story” is what is now known as “immigration porn”.
These are sad-sack stories are intended to inflame the emotions of readers to the so-called “injustice” of the immigration enforcement action, without ever acknowledging the crimes committed for which the folks are detained.
Immigration porn code words:
–hard-working “immigrant”
–family man, aka “Maryland [or other state] dad”
–DACA
–dreamer
–2 (or 3 or 4) generations living in the US (but cannot speak the language?)
–diverse
–doing jobs American won’t do
We ALL are tired of this immigration porn disguised as “journalism”.
Try again, FFP.
Flatwater Free Press sure is a weird name. It’s a very bad name. What in the world is it – a newspaper or a bog or…? I live in Nebraska and have never heard of it. It has an amateurish feel to it for sure. I will say that I do not know why police are helping ICE in Nebraska. Police normally do not assist ICE.
Throwing rocks to damage property and injure people, jumping on or in front of moving vehicles, harassing with profanity… I doubt this ugly behavior evokes widespread sympathy for the cause. What is the motivation for such unlawful recklessness, other than a large measure of entitlement?
Given the way stolen identities came to the attention of ICE, this suggests some Hispanics in the community reported the problem to ICE. How else would ICE figure out so many were using stolen identities?
Will never buy another product from this company for what they have done to thier employees.
I don’t know what immigration porn is . Please explain. So no all of us aren’t tired of it. And I do not understand how DACA or dreamer is immigration porn whatever that is. I really can’t identify with your comment regarding 2nd ,3rd,4th generation not able to speak the language. I know many immigrants. Most know the language. Maybe not the people who come first but definitely their children. The children go to school. You better believe they learn English. And for most who get citizenship in order to get thru the tests you have to know at least a 3rd grade level of speaking and writing. More than a lot of American born know. Ha Ha. It is true that people over a certain age can take the tests in their own language. The older you are the harder it is to learn a language. And many can’t access english classes. Why? They work several jobs. No way to go to classes. So yes takes many yrs to become fluent in those instances. And for many if surrounded by your family it’s easy to speak your native language. I have relatives from another country who are quite fluent in English. But it is really tiring to speak english all day. My relatives speak 3 languages. How many do you? I wonder how many yrs it took you to learn the language? Oh. I’m still learning words l didn’t know and I’m in my 80s. And I’m getting a real chuckle about the word bias in all the replies . As they are showing bias big time. My opinion.
Thank you to the reporters for producing a fine piece of Journalism. Thank you FFP for employing quality reporters.
My guess is that there will not be a rush of locals to fill these low-paying, low-skill positions.
No one in congress can agree on a legal path to citizenship. Some workers taken away had been working there 20 years! Yes, this hurts everyone in the community. Do process is still the law – follow it. Fix the immigration laws! Thank you FFP!
I had big hopes when FFP came onto the scene, billing itself as “independent journalism.” This is yet another one-sided article, further eroding trust in media. We are a nation of laws. If you came illegally, you need to be sent back. Other nations enforce immigration laws, and our nation needs to as well.
Looks like good ol’ fashioned journalism – pictures, videos, names of people interviewed, direct quotes from those interviewed. I don’t see bias here, sorry.
Uh, ok
I very much appreciate your reporting this story so thoroughly. Thank you, FFP.