Federal Court to Trump: keeping a standing army is illegal, the federalization of California’s National Guard must end | Governor of California
News
Dec 10, 2025
Federal Court to Trump: keeping a standing army is illegal, the federalization of California’s National Guard must end
What you need to know:
California wins victory against Trump in court to return California National Guard soldiers to the Governor’s control.
SACRAMENTO
–
In a major win for California, a federal court has directed the Trump Administration to return control of the California National Guard to Governor Gavin Newsom.
Today’s ruling is abundantly clear – the federalization of the National Guard in California is illegal and must end. The President deployed these brave men and women against their own communities, removing them from essential public safety operations. We look forward to all National Guard servicemembers being returned to state service.
Governor Gavin Newsom
Read the court ruling
here
.
How we got here
On June 7, for the first time in our country’s history, the President invoked 10 U.S.C. § 12406 to federalize a state’s National Guard over the objections of a state’s governor. President Trump and Department of Defense Secretary Hegseth transferred 4,000 members of California’s National Guard—one in three of the Guard’s total active members—to federal control to serve in a civilian law enforcement role on the streets of Los Angeles and other communities in Southern California. California brought suit to challenge that unprecedented action. The litigation is ongoing.
Following a bench trial, a federal judge ruled in August 2025 that President Trump’s deployment of federalized National Guard troops in Los Angeles
violated the Posse Comitatus Act
. This law restricts the military’s involvement in domestic law enforcement. That ruling, secured by Governor Gavin Newsom and Attorney General Rob Bonta, is on hold pending the federal government’s appeal.
Governor Newsom has warned that although California was the first to be targeted in this way, it
would not be the last
– a prediction borne out by the President’s subsequent unlawful federalization of National Guard troops elsewhere, including in Oregon and Illinois. The federal government had renewed the federalization of these California guard members to at least February 2026.
Press releases
,
Public safety
,
Recent news
Recent news
Hot take: The National Rifle Association agrees with Governor Newsom
Jan 27, 2026
News What you need to know: The Trump administration continues to trample our basic Constitutional rights. SACRAMENTO – While President Trump today doubled down on claims that individuals “can’t walk with guns,” two unlikely allies have come together — Governor Gavin...
California tops $1.2 billion in illegal cannabis seizures, up 18x since 2022
Jan 27, 2026
News What you need to know: Since the launch of the Unified Cannabis Enforcement Task Force (UCETF) in 2022, California has seized more than $1.2 billion in illegal cannabis. SACRAMENTO – Underscoring the value of the state’s effort to protect public safety and...
Governor Newsom and Attorney General Bonta to law enforcement: Local and state police have authority to investigate crimes committed by federal agents
Jan 27, 2026
News California supports state and local law enforcement agencies’ authority to conduct concurrent investigations of incidents involving federal officers What you need to know: Governor Gavin Newsom and Attorney General Rob Bonta today issued a bulletin reminding...