Britania Uriostegui Rios: Trump administration ‘inadvertently’ deported transgender woman to Mexico despite a judge’s concern she may face torture there | CNN Ad Feedback CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I&#x27;ve seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much appreciated. Close Close icon US Crime + Justice More Crime + Justice Watch Listen Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Listen Watch Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español Crime + Justice Follow CNN US Crime + Justice World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Politics Trump Facts First CNN Polls 2026 Elections Calendar Redistricting Tracker Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear &amp; Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships CNN Underscored Electronics Fashion Beauty Health &amp; Fitness Home Reviews Deals Gifts Travel Outdoors Pets Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food &amp; Drink Stay Videos Sports Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Winter Olympics 2026 Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Watch Featured Shows &amp; Films Network TV Clips CNN Headlines CNN Shorts Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Photo Shuffle Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Subscribe Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN US 4 min read Trump administration ‘inadvertently’ deported transgender woman to Mexico despite judge’s concern she may face torture there By Elizabeth Wolfe Updated Nov 19, 2025, 1:10 PM ET Published Nov 19, 2025, 2:27 AM ET Updated Nov 19, 2025, 1:10 PM ET PUBLISHED Nov 19, 2025, 2:27 AM ET Military-style Humvees are parked along the border wall in Brownsville, Texas, where Britania Uriostegui Rios was deported to Mexico. Michael Gonzalez/Getty Images Mexico LGBTQ issues Human rights See all topics Facebook Tweet Email Link Link Copied! Follow The Trump administration admitted it “inadvertently” deported a transgender woman to Mexico this month after a judge ordered she not be removed to the country over fears she may be tortured or violently persecuted. The government has said it will allow Britania Uriostegui Rios, a Mexican national, to return to the US if she is able to make it to the border. Once she has returned, she will be placed back in ICE custody while the administration tries to deport her to a different country, court documents show. The case marks the latest example of the Trump administration wrongfully removing someone protected by court orders or special status as it works to carry out the president’s goal of a history-making mass deportation program. Uriostegui Rios is at least the fifth such case this year, including the administration’s dramatic legal showdown over the removal – and eventual return – of Salvadoran man Kilmar Abrego Garcia. Uriostegui Rios’s attorneys are suing the administration and demanding that she not be required to return to federal custody once she is back in the US – “if she happens to make it to a port of entry without dying.” Mexico is one of the deadliest countries in the world for transgender people, according to the Trans Murder Monitoring Project . Though the full scope of risk to transgender people in Mexico is unclear, journalists and advocacy groups have documented pervasive – and often fatal – violence. Related video CNN Rep. Jamie Raskin blasts Trump admin for wrongful deportation Since entering the US in 2003, Uriostegui Rios has racked up a lengthy criminal history that includes convictions for disorderly conduct, sexual solicitation and DUI, according to court filings from a Department of Homeland Security official. An immigration judge ordered her deportation in March after she was convicted of assault with a deadly weapon in Las Vegas. But the judge simultaneously blocked the government from removing Uriostegui Rios to her native Mexico, finding there was a likelihood she could face “torture” there. Even so, Uriostegui Rios was flown from a detention center in Louisiana to Texas on November 11, where her attorneys say she was taken across the border to Mexico without money, her daily medications or a cell phone. She was able to borrow a phone and call her attorneys, who say they were not notified Uriostegui Rios had been deported. “ICE confirmed that your client was removed to Mexico inadvertently,” Department of Justice attorney Shannon Smitherman wrote in an email filed in court. The next day, she wrote, “ICE stands ready to remedy the inadvertent removal by allowing your client to voluntarily reenter the United States if your client wishes to do so.” DHS Assistant Secretary Tricia McLaughlin said in a statement to CNN that Uriostegui Rios was “removed from the US and will be brought back to the US.” At the same time, the agency will seek another country for deportation. “The end result will be the same - Rios will not be able to remain in the US and will be removed,” McLaughlin said. The White House has not responded to a request for comment. Related article Kilmar Abrego Garcia attends an event with supporters, as he appears for a check-in at the ICE field office in in Baltimore, Maryland, on August 25, 2025. Elizabeth Frantz/Reuters/File 3 African countries say they won’t accept Kilmar Abrego Garcia as battle plays out in two courts over his fate Uriostegui Rios was being detained in a men’s facility in Louisiana while the US government unsuccessfully tried to deport her to Costa Rica, Honduras and Nicaragua, according to court filings. In August, it began an effort to remove her to El Salvador, but the petition is still pending with Salvadoran officials. It is unclear what fears Uriostegui Rios expressed to the judge, but the legal definition of torture is vast and includes state-sanctioned violence, “cruel and inhumane treatment,” and prolonged mental suffering out of fear for one’s life. When asked what threats Uriostegui Rios faces in Mexico, her attorney Bridget Pranzatelli told CNN she “is a trans woman who has been through extreme trauma, including being sexually trafficked by cartels [at] as young as 12 years old.” “As a result of these experiences, she has significant mental health issues,” Pranzatelli said. “There are many actors in Mexico who want to hurt her, which is why an immigration judge found it more likely than not that she would be tortured or killed if forced to return.” ﻿ Since being sent to Mexico, Uriostegui Rios has been shielding her identity while sheltering with family out of fear they will discover she is trans and kick her out, one of her attorneys, Talia Lepson, wrote in a court filing . If Uriostegui Rios is able to return to the US, her legal team is asking that she be released from ICE custody and be allowed to go home under a supervision order, saying “the government cannot be trusted to follow the law” or court orders. Mexico LGBTQ issues Human rights See all topics Facebook Tweet Email Link Link Copied! Follow Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Listen Watch US Crime + Justice World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Politics Trump Facts First CNN Polls 2026 Elections Calendar Redistricting Tracker Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear &amp; Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships CNN Underscored Electronics Fashion Beauty Health &amp; Fitness Home Reviews Deals Gifts Travel Outdoors Pets Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food &amp; Drink Stay News Videos Sports Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Winter Olympics 2026 Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Watch Featured Shows &amp; Films Network TV Clips CNN Headlines CNN Shorts Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Photo Shuffle Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Subscribe Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN US Watch Listen Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Follow CNN Download the CNN app Download the CNN app Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility &amp; CC About Subscribe Newsletters Transcripts Help Center &copy; 2026 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network. Download the CNN app Scan the QR code to download the CNN app on Google Play. Download the CNN app Scan the QR code to download the CNN app from the Apple Store.