Title: Feds Tear Gas, Shoot Rubber Bullets At Protesters Outside Broadview ICE Facility Again
Authors: Charles Thrush, Colin Boyle, More Colin Boyle, .Wp-Block-Co-Authors-Plus-Coauthors.Is-Layout-Flow, Class, Wp-Block-Co-Authors-Plus, Display Inline, .Wp-Block-Co-Authors-Plus-Avatar, Where Img, Height Auto Max-Width
Published: 2025-09-26 00:00:00

BROADVIEW — Federal agents shot rubber bullets at and tear gassed demonstrators during a Friday morning protest outside the Broadview ICE facility.

Demonstrators have regularly gathered outside the facility, 1930 Beach St., in recent weeks as part of resistance to federal operations Midway Blitz and At Large, which are targeting undocumented people in Chicago and throughout Illinois. But the protests have grown violent recently as agents have used force against protesters who try to block access to the facility.

Listen 🎧 Can Judges Curb ICE’s Operation Midway Blitz? Episode play icon Can Judges Curb ICE’s Operation Midway Blitz? Load More Search Results placeholder Previous Episode Show Episodes List Next Episode

About 8 a.m. Friday, agents threw tear gas canisters at protesters and shot at them with rubber pellets and pepper spray balls near 25th Avenue and Harvard Street. Local and state police had shut down an adjacent section of Harvard Street before 8 a.m.

“Someone’s gotta stand in the front,” said Kurt Evans, who carried an American flag and led a group of protesters as agents bombarded them.

After the initial tear gas deployment, outraged demonstrators crowded a narrow parking lot adjacent to the facility. For the next hour and a half, federal officers fired off pepper spray balls and tear gas canisters, hitting organizers, journalists and photographers in the process.

Around 10:30 a.m., a sniper positioned on the roof of the facility fired baton rounds toward the crowd, shattering the windows of a nearby business and splitting open one protester’s guitar. Baton rounds are less-lethal ammunition, similar to rubber bullets and typically used for crowd control by officers.

At one point, an armed officer fired multiple tear gas canisters into the air, immediately dispersing the crowd. One protester tossed a canister back at officers and was shot at with less-lethal rounds.

“Everything was peaceful before the pepper bullets. I was helping people tie handwritten notes of encouragement to detainees to the fence outside,” Democratic congressional candidate Bushra Amiwala said in a statement Friday, describing the moment she said she was struck by pepper bullets.

A protester is hit in the head by a pepper ball as they lob a tear gas canister that was fired by federal agents back during a protest near the Immigration and Customs Enforcement facility at 1930 Beach St. in Broadview, Ill. on Sept. 26, 2025. Credit: Colin Boyle/Block Club Chicago

Tensions flared again about 11 a.m. as agents forced protesters back onto the street as vehicles drove into the facility’s lot.

Throughout the morning, protesters tossed plushies and stuffed animals at cars driven by federal agents.

Demonstrations have been held every Friday morning since Operation Midway Blitz began this month; this week, some organizers called for people to gather daily in a bid to shut down the facility.

Federal agents shot rubber pellets and pepper balls at protesters during a Friday morning demonstration outside the Broadview ICE facility.

For this Friday’s protest, organizers were forced to move locations because federal immigration officials put up a fence in the street near the processing center. Broadview officials have said the fence was put up illegally and have demanded ICE remove the fence, but it was still up as of Friday morning.

People passing by in cars and trucks honked their horns, seemingly in support of the protest. Demonstrators marched in a circle from one sidewalk to the other, chanting, “How do you spell racist? I-C-E!”

Ten protesters were detained and later released in last week’s protest, according to the National Lawyers Guild.

That protest also saw federal agents tear gas and shoot pepper balls at protesters.

And on Wednesday, protesters said an ICE agent hit a protester with a car. Block Club has not been able to verify the driver was an agent. Broadview police are investigating.

Protester Levi Rolles had welts across his back after federal agents shot him with pepper balls. Credit: Colin Boyle/Block Club Chicago Someone helps pour water in the eyes of a protester who had been tear gassed during Friday’s demonstration outside the Broadview ICE facility. Credit: Colin Boyle/Block Club Chicago

Levi Rolles said he was one of the 10 people arrested during last week’s protest — but he returned Friday morning. Agents yelled at Rolles to “go home” and shot him with pepper balls.

Rolles said that after he was detained, he was taken to an empty section of the facility for several hours. At one point, he saw another protester, who was Latino, and saw an agent hit that protester and call him slurs because the agent thought that person “was an immigrant,” Rolles said. But Rolles, who is white, was treated respectfully, he said.

On Friday, Rolles stood at the front of the gathering and was shot dozens of times with pepper spray balls. He took his shirt off, revealing a patchwork of welts on his back. A federal officer knew Rolles by name and pleaded with him to move backwards away from agents, to little avail.

“If I die out here, someone’s gonna have to step in and replace me,” Rolles said as another protester cleaned his wounds with soap and water. “I will die for this.”

Agents warned the crowd that those who didn’t move back would be arrested. One protester, who some identified as a medic, was wrestled to the ground by several agents and was walked into the facility in handcuffs.

About 11:30 a.m., a woman who tried to block an ICE-affiliated van by standing in front of it was pulled to the ground by an officer before being released back into the crowd.

“We just want to do our jobs and go home,” an agent said to one protester. “We don’t want to turn this into a fight.”

The protest began to die down around noon, as protesters slowly trickled away and agents, many with riot shields, continued to hold the line before walking back to the facility.

Two people were arrested Friday, according to the National Lawyers Guild.

Protesters demonstrated Friday morning outside the Broadview ICE facility. Credit: Colin Boyle/Block Club Chicago

Listen to the Block Club Chicago podcast: