Feds Tear Gas, Shoot Rubber Bullets At Protesters Outside Broadview ICE Facility Again Real Chicago stories start in your neighborhood Get a daily digest of stories from all neighborhoods across Chicago. On Sundays, you'll get our reporters’ best of the week, highlighting the people and places that make our neighborhoods home. Sign up Real Chicago stories start in your neighborhood Get a daily digest of stories from all neighborhoods across Chicago. On Sundays, you'll get our reporters’ best of the week, highlighting the people and places that make our neighborhoods home. Sign up Real Chicago stories start in your neighborhood Get a daily digest of stories from all neighborhoods across Chicago. On Sundays, you'll get our reporters’ best of the week, highlighting the people and places that make our neighborhoods home. Sign up Close SUBSCRIBE Sign In Search for: Search Latest Stories Neighborhoods Open dropdown menu Austin, Garfield Park, North Lawndale Belmont Cragin, Hermosa Beverly, Mount Greenwood, Morgan Park Bridgeport, Chinatown, McKinley Park Open dropdown menu Gage Park, Brighton Park McKinley Park Bronzeville, Near South Side Downtown Open dropdown menu Loop River North, Gold Coast, Near North Side South Loop West Loop Edgebrook, Edison Park, Sauganash Englewood, Chatham, Auburn Gresham Open dropdown menu Ashburn Hyde Park, Woodlawn, South Shore Jefferson Park, Portage Park, Norwood Park Open dropdown menu O&#8217;Hare Lakeview, Wrigleyville, Northalsted Open dropdown menu Roscoe Village Lincoln Park, Old Town Lincoln Square, North Center, Irving Park Open dropdown menu Albany Park Ravenswood Logan Square, Humboldt Park, Avondale Midway, West Lawn Pilsen, Little Village, Back of the Yards Open dropdown menu Back of the Yards Roseland, Pullman South Chicago, East Side Open dropdown menu Hegewisch Uptown, Edgewater, Rogers Park Open dropdown menu Andersonville Wicker Park, Bucktown, West Town Arts &#038; Culture Investigations Podcasts Newsletters Donate Shop Open dropdown menu Merch Photos Facebook Page Instagram Twitter Bluesky Threads TikTok Close Search Latest Stories Neighborhoods Austin, Garfield Park, North Lawndale Belmont Cragin, Hermosa Beverly, Mount Greenwood, Morgan Park Bridgeport, Chinatown, McKinley Park Gage Park, Brighton Park McKinley Park Bronzeville, Near South Side Downtown Loop River North, Gold Coast, Near North Side South Loop West Loop Edgebrook, Edison Park, Sauganash Englewood, Chatham, Auburn Gresham Ashburn Hyde Park, Woodlawn, South Shore Jefferson Park, Portage Park, Norwood Park O&#8217;Hare Lakeview, Wrigleyville, Northalsted Roscoe Village Lincoln Park, Old Town Lincoln Square, North Center, Irving Park Albany Park Ravenswood Logan Square, Humboldt Park, Avondale Midway, West Lawn Pilsen, Little Village, Back of the Yards Back of the Yards Roseland, Pullman South Chicago, East Side Hegewisch Uptown, Edgewater, Rogers Park Andersonville Wicker Park, Bucktown, West Town Arts &#038; Culture Investigations Podcasts Newsletters Donate Shop Merch Photos Our Mission Board of Directors Our Team Contact Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Skip to content Menu Facebook Page Instagram Twitter Bluesky Threads TikTok Block Club Chicago Your Neighborhood News Site SUBSCRIBE Sign In Open Search Search for: Search SUBSCRIBE Menu Sign In Latest Stories Neighborhoods Open dropdown menu Austin, Garfield Park, North Lawndale Belmont Cragin, Hermosa Beverly, Mount Greenwood, Morgan Park Bridgeport, Chinatown, McKinley Park Open dropdown menu Gage Park, Brighton Park McKinley Park Bronzeville, Near South Side Downtown Open dropdown menu Loop River North, Gold Coast, Near North Side South Loop West Loop Edgebrook, Edison Park, Sauganash Englewood, Chatham, Auburn Gresham Open dropdown menu Ashburn Hyde Park, Woodlawn, South Shore Jefferson Park, Portage Park, Norwood Park Open dropdown menu O&#8217;Hare Lakeview, Wrigleyville, Northalsted Open dropdown menu Roscoe Village Lincoln Park, Old Town Lincoln Square, North Center, Irving Park Open dropdown menu Albany Park Ravenswood Logan Square, Humboldt Park, Avondale Midway, West Lawn Pilsen, Little Village, Back of the Yards Open dropdown menu Back of the Yards Roseland, Pullman South Chicago, East Side Open dropdown menu Hegewisch Uptown, Edgewater, Rogers Park Open dropdown menu Andersonville Wicker Park, Bucktown, West Town Arts &#038; Culture Investigations Podcasts Newsletters Donate Shop Open dropdown menu Merch Photos Topics Business Block Club Eats LGBTQ+ News Weather Things To Do Openings &#038; Closings Neighborhood Maps Posted in Citywide Feds Tear Gas, Shoot Rubber Bullets At Protesters Outside Broadview ICE Facility Again Demonstrators have been regularly organizing outside the facility as part of local resistance to operations Midway Blitz and At Large, which are targeting undocumented people in and around Chicago. by Charles Thrush and Colin Boyle September 26, 2025 September 26, 2025 Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Credibility: Original Reporting On the Ground Sources Cited Original Reporting This article contains new, firsthand information uncovered by its reporter(s). This includes directly interviewing sources and research/analysis of primary source documents. On the Ground Indicates that a Newsmaker/Newsmakers was/were physically present to report the article from some/all of the location(s) it concerns. Sources Cited As a news piece, this article cites verifiable, third-party sources which have all been thoroughly fact-checked and deemed credible by the Newsroom. Protesters demonstrated Friday morning outside the Broadview ICE facility. Credit: Colin Boyle/Block Club Chicago BROADVIEW — Federal agents shot rubber bullets at and tear gassed demonstrators during a Friday morning protest outside the Broadview ICE facility. Demonstrators have regularly gathered outside the facility, 1930 Beach St., in recent weeks as part of resistance to federal operations Midway Blitz and At Large, which are targeting undocumented people in Chicago and throughout Illinois. But the protests have grown violent recently as agents have used force against protesters who try to block access to the facility. Listen 🎧 Chicago Under Siege &#8212; How Operation Midway Blitz Changed Our City Episode play icon Chicago Under Siege &#8212; How Operation Midway Blitz Changed Our City Load More Search Results placeholder Previous Episode Show Episodes List Next Episode About 8 a.m. Friday, agents threw tear gas canisters at protesters and shot at them with rubber pellets and pepper spray balls near 25th Avenue and Harvard Street. Local and state police had shut down an adjacent section of Harvard Street before 8 a.m. “Someone’s gotta stand in the front,” said Kurt Evans, who carried an American flag and led a group of protesters as agents bombarded them. After the initial tear gas deployment, outraged demonstrators crowded a narrow parking lot adjacent to the facility. For the next hour and a half, federal officers fired off pepper spray balls and tear gas canisters, hitting organizers, journalists and photographers in the process. Around 10:30 a.m., a sniper positioned on the roof of the facility fired baton rounds toward the crowd, shattering the windows of a nearby business and splitting open one protester&#8217;s guitar. Baton rounds are less-lethal ammunition, similar to rubber bullets and typically used for crowd control by officers. At one point, an armed officer fired multiple tear gas canisters into the air, immediately dispersing the crowd. One protester tossed a canister back at officers and was shot at with less-lethal rounds. &#8220;Everything was peaceful before the pepper bullets. I was helping people tie handwritten notes of encouragement to detainees to the fence outside,” Democratic congressional candidate Bushra Amiwala said in a statement Friday, describing the moment she said she was struck by pepper bullets. A protester is hit in the head by a pepper ball as they lob a tear gas canister that was fired by federal agents back during a protest near the Immigration and Customs Enforcement facility at 1930 Beach St. in Broadview, Ill. on Sept. 26, 2025. Credit: Colin Boyle/Block Club Chicago Tensions flared again about 11 a.m. as agents forced protesters back onto the street as vehicles drove into the facility&#8217;s lot. Throughout the morning, protesters tossed plushies and stuffed animals at cars driven by federal agents. Demonstrations have been held every Friday morning since Operation Midway Blitz began this month; this week, some organizers called for people to gather daily in a bid to shut down the facility. Federal agents shot rubber pellets and pepper balls at protesters during a Friday morning demonstration outside the Broadview ICE facility. For this Friday&#8217;s protest, organizers were forced to move locations because federal immigration officials put up a fence in the street near the processing center. Broadview officials have said the fence was put up illegally and have demanded ICE remove the fence, but it was still up as of Friday morning. People passing by in cars and trucks honked their horns, seemingly in support of the protest. Demonstrators marched in a circle from one sidewalk to the other, chanting, “How do you spell racist? I-C-E!” Ten protesters were detained and later released in last week’s protest, according to the National Lawyers Guild. That protest also saw federal agents tear gas and shoot pepper balls at protesters. And on Wednesday, protesters said an ICE agent hit a protester with a car . Block Club has not been able to verify the driver was an agent. Broadview police are investigating. Protester Levi Rolles had welts across his back after federal agents shot him with pepper balls. Credit: Colin Boyle/Block Club Chicago Someone helps pour water in the eyes of a protester who had been tear gassed during Friday&#8217;s demonstration outside the Broadview ICE facility. Credit: Colin Boyle/Block Club Chicago Levi Rolles said he was one of the 10 people arrested during last week&#8217;s protest — but he returned Friday morning. Agents yelled at Rolles to &#8220;go home&#8221; and shot him with pepper balls. Rolles said that after he was detained, he was taken to an empty section of the facility for several hours. At one point, he saw another protester, who was Latino, and saw an agent hit that protester and call him slurs because the agent thought that person &#8220;was an immigrant,&#8221; Rolles said. But Rolles, who is white, was treated respectfully, he said. On Friday, Rolles stood at the front of the gathering and was shot dozens of times with pepper spray balls. He took his shirt off, revealing a patchwork of welts on his back. A federal officer knew Rolles by name and pleaded with him to move backwards away from agents, to little avail. “If I die out here, someone’s gonna have to step in and replace me,” Rolles said as another protester cleaned his wounds with soap and water. “I&nbsp;will &nbsp; die for this.” Agents warned the crowd that those who didn’t move back would be arrested. One protester, who some identified as a medic, was wrestled to the ground by several agents and was walked into the facility in handcuffs. About 11:30 a.m., a woman who tried to block an ICE-affiliated van by standing in front of it was pulled to the ground by an officer before being released back into the crowd. “We just want to do our jobs and go home,” an agent said to one protester. “We don’t want to turn this into a fight.” The protest began to die down around noon, as protesters slowly trickled away and agents, many with riot shields, continued to hold the line before walking back to the facility. Two people were arrested Friday, according to the National Lawyers Guild. Protesters demonstrated Friday morning outside the Broadview ICE facility. Credit: Colin Boyle/Block Club Chicago Support Local News! Subscribe to Block Club Chicago , an independent, 501(c)(3), journalist-run newsroom. Every dime we make funds reporting from Chicago’s neighborhoods. Already subscribe?&nbsp; Click here to gift a subscription , or you can support Block Club with a tax-deductible donation. Listen to the Block Club Chicago podcast: Listen On Apple Podcasts Listen On Spotify Is There Any Way Out Of Chicago&#8217;s Horrible Parking Meter Deal? Episode play icon Is There Any Way Out Of Chicago&#8217;s Horrible Parking Meter Deal? Episode play icon The 28-Year-Old Breaking Birding Records In Chicago Episode play icon Good. Better. Best. Grater &#8212; The Bears’ Wild Ride Continues Episode play icon As Crime Rates Fall, Domestic Homicides Are Surging In Chicago. Why? Episode play icon Bears. Packers. Grate night? Or Does The Pack Still Own Da Bears? UPDATE: DAAAAAAAAA BEARS Load More Search Results placeholder Previous Episode Show Episodes List Next Episode Show Podcast Information Tagged: Migrants Colin Boyle colin@blockclubchi.org Twitter @colinbphoto More by Colin Boyle Post navigation Previous After 2 Years Of Increases, Chicago Public Schools Enrollment Drops 2.8 Percent Next Armed Border Agents&#8217; Cruise On Chicago River Slammed As &#8216;Photo Op&#8217; By Alderman Community Send News Tips FAQ/Help About Us Our Team Board of Directors Free Text Alerts Staff Diversity Report 2024 Annual Report Support Us! Donate to Block Club Chicago More Ways to Give Manage My Account Advertise Our Supporters Jobs Media Kit EIN: 82-3844275 Block Club Chicago is a nonprofit news organization dedicated to delivering reliable, nonpartisan and essential coverage of Chicago’s diverse neighborhoods. &copy; 2026 Block Club Chicago Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook Page Instagram Twitter Bluesky Threads TikTok Sign in Close Enter the code sent to your email. Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Create an account Sign in to an existing account Go back Continue Set a password (optional) Terms of Service . Sign up for newsletters Close Get the best of Block Club Chicago directly in your email inbox. Sending to: Citywide Morning Newsletter A daily digest of the top news from across all neighborhoods of Chicago: our best coverage from every corner of the city and the most important stories for all residents and guests. Continue Gift this article Close Link Copy link