Title: 11 people accused of ‘planned ambush’ on Alvarado ICE detention center, feds say
Authors: Alfred Charles, Alfred Is A Proud Tcu Horned Frog, Dallas Native Who Has Worked As A Writer, Reporter, Digital Content Creator Manager., Timia Cobb, Timia Cobb Is A Breaking News Reporter For The Dallas Morning News As Of June, She Previously Worked With Syracuse.Com, The Post-Standard, As A Fellow With The Texas Tribune.
Published: 2025-07-07 00:00:00

Federal law enforcement officials on Monday said 11 suspects are facing criminal charges in connection with a July Fourth holiday attack at an ICE detention center in Alvarado.

Nancy Larson, the acting U.S. attorney for the Northern District of Texas, said during an afternoon news conference that 10 of the suspects each have been charged with three counts of attempted murder of a federal officer, along with three counts of discharging a firearm in relation to a crime of violence.

Larson said the 10 people are all facing a prison term of between 10 years and up to life if they are convicted. The individuals have not been indicted for any of the federal crimes, court records show.

Related Alvarado police officer shot near North Texas ICE detention center on 4th of July

Larson said an 11th person, who was not named, has been charged with obstruction of justice and conspiracy for attempting to conceal and destroy evidence. That man is facing a prison sentence of up to 10 years if he is convicted, according to Larson.

Crime in The News Read the crime and public safety news your neighbors are talking about. SIGN UP Or with: Google By signing up, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.

“It was a planned ambush with the attempt to kill ICE correction officers,” Larson said during a brief news conference in which officials declined to take questions. “Make no mistake: This was not a so-called peaceful protest.”

A group of 10 to 12 people— all wearing black, military-style clothing — targeted the Prairieland ICE detention center, located in the 1200 block of Sunflower Lane in Johnson County, at 10:37 p.m. Friday, according to a federal criminal complaint filed in the Northern District court.

Advertisement

The city of Alvarado is roughly 25 miles south of Fort Worth.

The group shot fireworks toward the Prairieland detention center, graffitied nearby cars and damaged a vehicle and a guard structure in the parking lot, according to the complaint.

The suspects ignited the fireworks in an effort to draw corrections workers outside the secure facility.

“And it worked,” Larson said, describing what sounded like a well-coordinated attack on the facility and its employees.

As two unarmed correctional employees went outside to talk to the group, an Alvarado police officer arrived at the scene.

Advertisement

The officer was shot in the neck by one of the suspects who stood in the wooded area near the detention center, according to the complaint. The officer suffered a non-life-threatening injury during the incident, officials said.

Then the person in the woods opened fire on the officers, according to the complaint. It was estimated in the complaint that 20 to 30 rounds were fired.

All of the suspects fled, leaving a jammed AK-47-style rifle behind, officials said.

Officers later arrested seven people almost a mile away from where the Alvarado police officer was shot, according to the complaint.

Advertisement

Another man with the group was arrested by a Johnson County sheriff’s office detective, according to the complaint. As the detective was on their way to the detention center, they spotted a Hyundai fleeing and conducted a traffic stop.

The man driving the car had a pistol and, when asked by the detective if there were more weapons in the car, revealed there was an AR-15 in the back, according to the complaint.

The man admitted in the complaint that he had been at the detention center with a group of people he met online. The man had driven the group from Dallas to the detention center in order to “make some noise,” according to the complaint.

Larson said a search turned up 12 sets of body armor along with a flag that said “fight oligarchy” and “resist fascism,” spray paint and flyers printed with anti-government messages.

Advertisement

A group of people are accused of shooting a Alvarado police officer as well as vandalizing cars, marking them with graffiti and damaging a guard structure at the Prairieland Detention Center in Alvarado on Friday, July 4, 2025. United States Attorney for the Northern District of Texas / United States Attorney for the Northern District of Texas

Additional weapons, including AR-15 rifles, magazines, body armor and radios were confiscated, according to the complaint.

Multiple guns, including AR-15 rifles, were confiscated from a group of people who are accused of shooting a Alvarado police officer at the Prairieland Detention Center in Alvarado on Friday, July 4, 2025. United States Attorney for the Northern District of Texas / United States Attorney for the Northern District of Texas

Ten people were arrested in connection with the shooting at the detention center. They each face charges of attempted murder of federal agents and discharging a firearm in relation to a crime of violence. The group includes:

Cameron Arnold of Dallas

Savannah Batten of Fort Worth

Nathan Baumann of College Station

Zachary Evetts of Waxahachie

Joy Gibson of Dallas

Bradford Morris of Dallas

Maricela Rueda of Fort Worth

Seth Sikes of Kennedale

Elizabeth Soto of Fort Worth

Ines Soto of Fort Worth

The 11th person was arrested under a different complaint. They were charged with obstruction of justice and conspiracy for attempting to conceal and destroy evidence, Larson said.

Officials said 70 law enforcement officers responded to the call for help after the Alvarado officer, who was not immediately identified, was shot.

Advertisement

Staff writer Aarón Torres contributed to this report.