11 people accused of ‘planned ambush’ on Alvarado ICE detention center, feds say ❄️ WEATHER UPDATES: A look at today&#x27;s weather TDMN TDMN TDMN Subscribe Discover How we build trust Traffic Tracker World Cup Future of North Texas Weather Curious Texas Advice Store Abode Podcasts ePaper Obituaries Public Notices Help Center 23 °F 40 ° 22 ° Advertisement news | Crime 11 people accused of ‘planned ambush’ on Alvarado ICE detention center, feds say Officials say incident was a coordinated, well-planned attack by nearly a dozen suspects. By Alfred Charles and Timia Cobb Staff Writers Jul. 7, 2025 | Updated Jul. 8, 2025 at 1:45 p.m. CDT | 3 min. read An Alvarado officer was struck in the neck by at least one bullet near the Prairieland Detention Facility in the 1200 block of Sunflower Lane in Alvarado, Friday, July 4, 2025. Johnson County Sheriff’s Office Update: 8:41 p.m. July 8, 2025: Updated with information from the criminal complaints. Federal law enforcement officials on Monday said 11 suspects are facing criminal charges in connection with a July Fourth holiday attack at an ICE detention center in Alvarado. Nancy Larson, the acting U.S. attorney for the Northern District of Texas, said during an afternoon news conference that 10 of the suspects each have been charged with three counts of attempted murder of a federal officer, along with three counts of discharging a firearm in relation to a crime of violence. Larson said the 10 people are all facing a prison term of between 10 years and up to life if they are convicted. The individuals have not been indicted for any of the federal crimes, court records show. Related Alvarado police officer shot near North Texas ICE detention center on 4th of July Larson said an 11th person, who was not named, has been charged with obstruction of justice and conspiracy for attempting to conceal and destroy evidence. That man is facing a prison sentence of up to 10 years if he is convicted, according to Larson. Crime in The News Read the crime and public safety news your neighbors are talking about. SIGN UP Or with: Google By signing up, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. “It was a planned ambush with the attempt to kill ICE correction officers,” Larson said during a brief news conference in which officials declined to take questions. “Make no mistake: This was not a so-called peaceful protest.” A group of 10 to 12 people— all wearing black, military-style clothing — targeted the Prairieland ICE detention center, located in the 1200 block of Sunflower Lane in Johnson County, at 10:37 p.m. Friday, according to a federal criminal complaint filed in the Northern District court. Advertisement The city of Alvarado is roughly 25 miles south of Fort Worth. The group shot fireworks toward the Prairieland detention center, graffitied nearby cars and damaged a vehicle and a guard structure in the parking lot, according to the complaint. The suspects ignited the fireworks in an effort to draw corrections workers outside the secure facility. “And it worked,” Larson said, describing what sounded like a well-coordinated attack on the facility and its employees. As two unarmed correctional employees went outside to talk to the group, an Alvarado police officer arrived at the scene. Advertisement The officer was shot in the neck by one of the suspects who stood in the wooded area near the detention center, according to the complaint. The officer suffered a non-life-threatening injury during the incident, officials said. Then the person in the woods opened fire on the officers, according to the complaint. It was estimated in the complaint that 20 to 30 rounds were fired. All of the suspects fled, leaving a jammed AK-47-style rifle behind, officials said. Officers later arrested seven people almost a mile away from where the Alvarado police officer was shot, according to the complaint. Advertisement Another man with the group was arrested by a Johnson County sheriff’s office detective, according to the complaint. As the detective was on their way to the detention center, they spotted a Hyundai fleeing and conducted a traffic stop. The man driving the car had a pistol and, when asked by the detective if there were more weapons in the car, revealed there was an AR-15 in the back, according to the complaint. The man admitted in the complaint that he had been at the detention center with a group of people he met online. The man had driven the group from Dallas to the detention center in order to “make some noise,” according to the complaint. Larson said a search turned up 12 sets of body armor along with a flag that said “fight oligarchy” and “resist fascism,” spray paint and flyers printed with anti-government messages. Advertisement A group of people are accused of shooting a Alvarado police officer as well as vandalizing cars, marking them with graffiti and damaging a guard structure at the Prairieland Detention Center in Alvarado on Friday, July 4, 2025. United States Attorney for the Northern District of Texas / United States Attorney for the Northern District of Texas Additional weapons, including AR-15 rifles, magazines, body armor and radios were confiscated, according to the complaint. Multiple guns, including AR-15 rifles, were confiscated from a group of people who are accused of shooting a Alvarado police officer at the Prairieland Detention Center in Alvarado on Friday, July 4, 2025. United States Attorney for the Northern District of Texas / United States Attorney for the Northern District of Texas Ten people were arrested in connection with the shooting at the detention center. They each face charges of attempted murder of federal agents and discharging a firearm in relation to a crime of violence. The group includes: Cameron Arnold of Dallas Savannah Batten of Fort Worth Nathan Baumann of College Station Zachary Evetts of Waxahachie Joy Gibson of Dallas Bradford Morris of Dallas Maricela Rueda of Fort Worth Seth Sikes of Kennedale Elizabeth Soto of Fort Worth Ines Soto of Fort Worth The 11th person was arrested under a different complaint. They were charged with obstruction of justice and conspiracy for attempting to conceal and destroy evidence, Larson said. Officials said 70 law enforcement officers responded to the call for help after the Alvarado officer, who was not immediately identified, was shot. Advertisement Staff writer Aarón Torres contributed to this report. Related Stories Read More Letters to the Editor — Remembering Kent State, silent Congress, Dallas City Hall, ICE Readers explain what happened at Kent State, ask why members of Congress aren’t speaking up, share some thoughts on Dallas City Hall and defend ICE. Trump softens tone on Minnesota immigration crackdown as some agents prepare to leave Both sides say progress being made in wake of fatal shooting of protester Alex Pretti. Greg Abbott tells Texas public schools and universities to hand over H-1B visa information Abbott says his office is examining whether taxpayer dollars are being used to pay for specialty visas or highly skilled workers. Minnesota CEOs issue joint letter urging de-escalation in Minnesota after shooting Biggest Minnesota-based companies had previously stayed on sidelines as protests unfolded. Democrats vow to oppose homeland security funding bill, raising risk of federal shutdown Budget bill agreement at risk of unraveling following fatal weekend Minneapolis ICE shooting. By Alfred Charles Alfred is a proud TCU Horned Frog and Dallas native who has worked as a writer, reporter and digital content creator/manager. By Timia Cobb Timia Cobb is a breaking news reporter for the Dallas Morning News as of June 2025. She previously worked with Syracuse.com |The Post-Standard and as a fellow with the Texas Tribune. She has a master&#x27;s degree in Magazine, News and Digital Journalism from Syracuse University and a bachelor&#x27;s in journalism from Texas State University. Commenting Experience Feedback Encounter an issue with commenting? Take 2 minutes to provide feedback to help us improve your experience. Join the conversation Thank you for reading. We welcome your thoughts on this topic. Comments are moderated for adherence to our Community Guidelines . Please read the guidelines before participating. Latest Stories Slow warm-up Tuesday for North Texas but freezing fog, slick ice spots still likely Live traffic map: Ice makes for hazardous road conditions in Dallas Tuesday morning In ‘brazen’ robbery, decades-old Highland Park jeweler suffers losses well over $500,000 TDMN Texas&#x27; Leading News Source Est. October 1, 1885 Advertise With Us Autos Place a Classified Ad Jobs Obituaries Public Notice Listings Buy Archive Back Copies DMN Store Licensing Photo Reprints Today's Paper Company About The Dallas Morning News Accessibility Careers Content Removal Review Do Not Sell My Personal Information Privacy Policy Site Map Products ePaper ePaper (Al Día) Newsletters Podcasts Subscriber Services Contact Us Delivery Issues Help Center Manage Your Digital Subscription Manage Your Print Subscription Member Rewards Terms of Service Vacation Stop Copyright © 2026 The Dallas Morning News. All rights reserved.