Title: Immigration advocacy group says ICE agents stepping up enforcement in Las Vegas
Authors: Joshua Peguero
Published: 2025-04-15 01:20:41+00:00

LAS VEGAS (KLAS) — An immigration advocacy group expects increased activity in Las Vegas from federal agents enforcing immigration laws.

In a news conference held on Monday, the Nevada Immigration Coalition said a hundred Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents will be in the Las Vegas valley until Easter Sunday.

“Due to our operational tempo and the increased interest in our agency, we are not able to research and respond to rumors or specifics of routine daily operations for ICE, an ICE spokesman said.

Nevada Democratic Sen. Catherine Cortez Masto was in Las Vegas Monday, and she addressed the ICE deportations with 8 News Now.

“The administration should follow the law. They’re not above the law. They’ve acted with lawlessness, unfortunately,” Cortez Masto said.

She also added that it’s important people know their rights.

“They are hardworking individuals, whether you’re a dreamer, you’re a [Temporary Protective Status] recipient. You’re not committing crimes in this community, and it is important that they have every due process,” Cortez Masto said.

President Donald Trump spoke at the Oval Office on Monday sitting next to El Salvadorian President Nayib Bukele. The Trump Administration has sent people that ICE agents have arrested to El Salvador’s prison.

“We have millions of people that should not be in this country that are dangerous,” Trump said.

Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem said in the Oval Office only people who love our country should be here.

“Mr. President, you wanted people to know that there was consequences if you harm people and endanger families and this is a clear consequence for the worst of the worst, that we have somewhere to put them,” Noem said.

According to the Nevada Immigration Coalition, ICE agents arrested 8 men last Friday at a worksite near Eastern and Ogden avenues. They were described as construction workers.

At Monday’s news conference, Laura Martin with the Nevada Immigration Coalition said it has seen an increase in plain clothes ICE agents in Southern Nevada.