Michelin stars are finally coming to Minnesota — at Gavin Kaysen’s $700 visiting chef series Subscribe Log In Minnesota News You Can Use Subscribe No Section Michelin stars are finally coming to Minnesota — at Gavin Kaysen’s $700 visiting chef series The chef is bringing in three chefs as part of the North Star Series at his intimate restaurant Demi. By Sharyn Jackson The Minnesota Star Tribune March 6, 2024 at 8:46PM The 20-seat Demi restaurant will be the setting for the North Star Series tasting dinners with Michelin-starred chefs. (Libby Anderson/Provided) Comment Gift Share Listen Print If you thought Minnesota was due for some Michelin stars, you are not alone . Gavin Kaysen is taking matters into his own hands. A hypothetical contender for recognition from the French dining guide for his work at Spoon and Stable, Demi and Mara — should Michelin ever turn its attention to our state — Kaysen has invited three decorated chefs from other cities to Demi for a new visiting chef series, called the North Star Series. (North star , get it?) “It is no surprise why I have chosen these teams and restaurants to come and cook with us,” Kaysen said in an announcement. “For years, they have focused on perfecting their craft of cooking and hospitality; something we believe in so much at Demi. It is also a perfect opportunity to showcase what it means to have earned a Michelin star. Our guests will have a chance to taste, and see up close, the distinct qualities of a 1-, 2- and 3-Michelin star dining experience. I am a firm believer that we are only as good as the people we surround ourselves with, and these fine professionals are some of the best there has ever been. I’m looking forward to sharing that with our guests.” Chef William Bradley leads Addison in San Diego, Southern California&#x27;s only three-starred restaurant. (Eric Wolfinger/Provided) The series launches May 3 with chef Ian Palazzola and master sommelier Bobby Stuckey from one-star Boulder, Colo., restaurant Frasca Food and Wine. On Aug. 2, Swedish chef Emma Bengtsson visits from New York City’s two-star Nordic dream Aquavit — a restaurant that’s still missed locally for its stint in downtown Minneapolis, when Marcus Samuelsson was at the helm . And on Oct. 4, chef/director William Bradley flies in from Addison in San Diego. It’s the only three-star Michelin restaurant in Southern California. The experience promises to be intimate, with all 20 of Demi’s seats in a U-shape around the open kitchen. Tickets are $695 per person for each nine-course dinner, an all-inclusive price tag that covers drink pairings, service fees, tax and a gift bag. Tickets for the North Star Series go on sale on the first day of the month before the event, at exploretock.com/demi . For perspective, a dinner at Frasca with wine pairings will run almost $400 before tax and tip, and Bengtsson’s chef’s tasting menu at Aquavit, with wine, goes for $500. If Minnesota wants Michelin stars, be prepared to pay the price. Share Comment about the writer Sharyn Jackson Reporter Sharyn Jackson is a features reporter covering the Twin Cities' vibrant food and drink scene. See More More from No Section (Assign Gallery and Videos here) See More No Section (Assign Gallery and Videos here) How do Minnesota pros prepare for a game? Collier, Faber, Gobert and others showed us. Chip Scoggins No Section (Assign Gallery and Videos here) How do Minnesota pros prepare for a game? Collier, Faber, Gobert and others showed us. Chip Scoggins Special report: Go behind Minnesota&#x27;s pro-athlete curtain to see how the best athletes in our state get ready for their biggest moment: gameday. No Section (Assign Gallery and Videos here) Business newsletter bottom No Section (Assign Gallery and Videos here) Business newsletter bottom No Section (Assign Gallery and Videos here) Newsletter top No Section (Assign Gallery and Videos here) Newsletter top No Section (Assign Gallery and Videos here) How do Minnesota pros prepare for a game? Collier, Faber, Gobert and others showed us. Chip Scoggins No Section (Assign Gallery and Videos here) How do Minnesota pros prepare for a game? Collier, Faber, Gobert and others showed us. Chip Scoggins Special report: Go behind Minnesota&#x27;s pro-athlete curtain to see how the best athletes in our state get ready for their biggest moment: gameday. Company About Us Contact Us Work for Us Donate News in Education Minnesota&#x27;s Best Strib Varsity Mobile and Tablet Apps Policies and Standards Advertise Get in Touch Advertising Opportunities Media Kit Classifieds Public Notices Obituaries Buy Strib Store Photo Reprints Full Page Archive: 150+ years Back Copies Commercial Reprints Licensing Support Help and Feedback Manage Your Account Newspaper Subscriptions Digital Access eEdition Text to Speech Website Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Accessibility Statement Site Index RSS © 2026 StarTribune. All rights reserved.