Federal officers detain 5-year-old boy who a Minnesota school official says was used as 'bait' | PBS News Full Episode Monday, Jan 26 Close Menu PBS NewsHour Episodes Podcasts Newsletters The Latest Politics Brooks and Capehart Politics Monday Supreme Court Arts CANVAS Poetry Now Read This Nation Supreme Court Race Matters Essays Brief But Spectacular World Agents for Change Compass Points Economy Making Sen$e Paul Solman Science The Leading Edge ScienceScope Basic Research Innovation and Invention Health Horizons Long-Term Care Education Teachers --> Teachers' Lounge Student Reporting Labs For Teachers Newshour Classroom About Feedback Funders Support Jobs Close Menu Support PBS News Your generous monthly contribution— or whatever you can give—will help secure our future. Donate now Close Popup PBS News Menu Notifications Get news alerts from PBS News Turn on desktop notifications? Yes Not now Full Episodes Podcasts Newsletters Live By — Hallie Golden, Associated Press Hallie Golden, Associated Press By — Sarah Raza, Associated Press Sarah Raza, Associated Press Leave your feedback Share Copy URL https://www.pbs.org/newshour/nation/federal-officers-detain-5-year-old-boy-who-a-minnesota-school-official-says-was-used-as-bait Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Pinterest Tumblr Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Federal officers detain 5-year-old boy who a Minnesota school official says was used as 'bait' Nation Jan 22, 2026 6:48 PM EST MINNEAPOLIS (AP) — A 5-year-old boy arriving home from preschool in Minnesota was taken by federal agents along with his father to a detention facility in Texas, school officials and the family's lawyer said, making him the fourth student from his Minneapolis suburb to be detained by immigration officers in recent weeks. WATCH: Migrant families allege children held by ICE face unsafe and unsanitary conditions Federal agents took Liam Conejo Ramos from a running car while it was in the family's driveway on Tuesday afternoon, Columbia Heights Public Schools Superintendent Zena Stenvik said during a news conference Wednesday. The officers then told him to knock on the door to his home to see if other people were inside, "essentially using a 5-year-old as bait," she said. Stenvik said the family, who came to the U.S. in 2024, has an active asylum case and had not been ordered to leave the country. "Why detain a 5-year-old?" she asked. "You cannot tell me that this child is going to be classified as a violent criminal." Department of Homeland Security spokesperson Tricia McLaughlin said in a statement that "ICE did NOT target a child." She said Immigration and Customs Enforcement was conducting an operation to arrest the child's father, Adrian Alexander Conejo Arias, who McLaughlin said is from Ecuador and in the U.S. illegally. He fled on foot, "abandoning his child," she said. "For the child's safety, one of our ICE officers remained with the child while the other officers apprehended Conejo Arias," McLaughlin said, adding that parents are given the choice to be removed with their children or have them placed with a person of their choosing. Stenvik said another adult who lives at the home was outside when the father and son were taken, but agents wouldn't leave Liam with that person. DHS didn't immediately respond to an email Thursday asking if Conejo Arias had asked to keep his son with him. The family's lawyer, Marc Prokosch, said Thursday that Liam and his father were taken to an immigration lockup in Dilley, Texas, and that he assumes they're being held in a family holding cell. "We're looking at our legal options to see if we can free them either through some legal mechanisms or moral pressure," he said at a news conference. During a Thursday visit to Minneapolis where he met with local leaders, Vice President JD Vance said he heard the "terrible story" about Liam but later learned the boy was only detained, not arrested. WATCH: To lower tensions over ICE, 'all we need is a little cooperation,' Vance says in Minneapolis "Well, what are they supposed to do? Are they supposed to let a 5-year-old child freeze to death? Are they not supposed to arrest an illegal alien in the United States of America?" said Vance, noting that he's the parent of a 5-year-old. Vance wasn't asked about why immigration officers allegedly wouldn't leave the boy with the other adult who lives at the home and offered to take him. An attorney who visited the Dilley lockup last week said conditions were deteriorating. Leecia Welch, the chief legal counselor at Children's Rights, visited as part of an ongoing lawsuit to ensure the safekeeping of immigrant children in federal custody. "The conditions were worse than ever. The number of children had skyrocketed and significant numbers of children had been detained for over 100 days," Welch said. The administration in December acknowledged that about 400 children had faced extended detention. "Nearly every child we spoke to was sick — and it seemed there was an epidemic of illnesses going around. Families reported that their children were malnourished, extremely ill, and suffering profoundly from prolonged detention," Welch said. Minnesota has become a major focus of immigration sweeps by DHS-led agencies. Greg Bovino, a U.S. Customs and Border Protection official who has been the face of the crackdowns in Minneapolis and other cities, said immigration officers have made about 3,000 arrests in Minnesota in the last six weeks. WATCH: Border Patrol and ICE leaders defend tactics used in Minneapolis operations Julia Decker, policy director at the Immigrant Law Center of Minnesota, said advocates have no way of knowing whether the government's arrest numbers and descriptions of the people in custody are accurate. Liam is the fourth student from Columbia Heights Public Schools who has been detained by ICE in recent weeks, said Stenvik. A 17-year-old student was taken Tuesday while heading to school, and a 10-year-old and a 17-year-old have also been taken, she said. The district is made up of five schools and about 3,400 students from pre-K to 12th grade, according to its website. The majority of the students come from immigrant families, according to Stenvik. She said they've noticed their attendance drop over the past two weeks, including one day where they had about one-third of their students out from school. Ella Sullivan, Liam's teacher, described him as "kind and loving." "His classmates miss him," she said. "And all I want is for him to be safe and back here." Golden reported from Seattle. Associated Press reporters Valerie Gonzalez in McAllen, Texas, and Kathy McCormack in Concord, New Hampshire, contributed to this story. A free press is a cornerstone of a healthy democracy. Support trusted journalism and civil dialogue. Donate now Left: ICE agents stand next to a boy, who a witness identified as Liam Conejo Ramos, a 5-year-old that school officials said was detained in Minneapolis, Minnesota, Jan. 20, 2026. Photo provided by Rachel James/via Reuters Related Migrant families allege children held by ICE face unsafe and unsanitary conditions By Geoff Bennett, Kyle Midura, Amalia Huot-Marchand DOJ subpoenas Minnesota Gov. Walz and other officials in obstruction investigation By Steve Karnowski, Alanna Durkin Richer, Associated Press A U.S. citizen says ICE forced open the door to his Minnesota home and removed him in his underwear after a warrantless search By Jack Brook, Associated Press Go Deeper immigration immigration and customs enforcement minneapolis minnesota By — Hallie Golden, Associated Press Hallie Golden, Associated Press By — Sarah Raza, Associated Press Sarah Raza, Associated Press --> Support Provided By: Learn more Educate your inbox Subscribe to Here&rsquo;s the Deal, our politics newsletter for analysis you won&rsquo;t find anywhere else. Enter your email address Subscribe Form error message goes here. Thank you. Please check your inbox to confirm. Full Episode Monday, Jan 26 Migrant families allege children held by ICE face unsafe and unsanitary conditions Nation Jan 20 PBS News &copy; 1996 - 2026 NewsHour Productions LLC. All Rights Reserved. PBS is a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization. Sections The Latest Politics Arts Nation World Economy Science Health Education About About Us TV Schedule Press Feedback Funders Support Newsletters Podcasts Jobs Privacy Terms of Use Stay Connected Facebook YouTube Instagram X TikTok Threads RSS Subscribe to Here's the Deal with Lisa Desjardins Enter your email address Subscribe Form error message goes here. Thank you. Please check your inbox to confirm. Support our journalism Support for News Hour Provided By