Title: Utah family shocked after ICE arrests husband during final green card interview
Authors: Fri, December, At Pm
Published: 2025-12-06 02:04:12+00:00

A Utah husband and father to U.S. citizens has been held in an immigration detention center after he was arrested by Immigration and Customs Enforcement during what was supposed to be his final green card interview in Salt Lake City.

Celis' immigration attorney, Andy Armstrong, at Stowell Crayk, PLLC, said Jair Celis has no criminal record and should have walked out of that appointment with an approved green card.

Armstrong said this is the first case their firm has handled where someone gets detained at a USCIS interview, but they have feared this could happen more often.

MORE | ICE Involvement In Utah

Lexie Celis, a U.S. citizen, said her husband’s arrest has devastated their family.

“For all the people who think that they’re just getting criminals, I am an example of them tearing our family apart,” Lexie Celis said.

She never imagined anything like this would happen to her family.

“I just feel betrayed. I feel no U.S. citizen should have to go through this,” she said.

Jair Celis was at the final step of his immigration process when ICE detained him at the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services office in Salt Lake City on Tuesday.

“We’ve tried to do everything the right way, we have, and he’s not here,” Celis said.

Armstrong, representing the family, argued that Celis’ case contradicts the federal government’s stated focus on arresting only dangerous individuals.

“Jair’s case shows that the rhetoric that we’re going after the worst of the worst, that’s not true,” he said. “Lexie and JR have been married, lawfully married, and have filled out the proper paperwork to apply for residency for Jair. He entered when he was a young child on a visa, and so he had a legal entry into the country, which allows him to adjust status here in the United States.”

2 News reached out to both USCIS and ICE for comment and asked why Celis was detained. But the agencies did not respond in time for this report.

Armstrong said ICE has the authority to arrest anyone without lawful status, even inside a USCIS office.

2 News asked, under what circumstances can an applicant be detained at an interview?

Armstrong said, “Any applicant who's out of status, this is any person, whether they're applying at USCIS, or they're just out on the street. If they are not in a legal status to be here.”

Armstrong believes in the Jair Celis case, “It’s such a colossal waste of U.S. government taxpayer money, and the ICE agents’ time and effort to take into custody somebody who otherwise would have received a green card or been approved for a green card that exact day.”

Immigration attorneys said they believe arrest numbers may rise.

“We believe the presidential administration is putting heavy pressure on ICE in Utah,” said Armstrong.

“I believe it is to sow fear among the immigrant community,” he added.

However, there are some protections for certain immigrants depending on their status.

“If you have DACA or you have TPS, which is Temporary Protected Status, or you are awaiting a hearing on an asylum, and you have a work permit, you do have protections,” he explained.

As for Lexie Celis, she said she just wants her husband home.

“I want him to be home before Christmas.”

_____