Title: Career criminal, illegal alien in ICE custody passes away at local hospital
Published: 2026-01-10 00:00:00

PHILADELPHIA, Penn. — Parady La, a 46-year-old criminal illegal alien from Cambodia, died Jan. 9 at the Thomas Jefferson University Hospital. La was being housed at and receiving treatment for severe drug withdrawal at the Federal Detention Center (FDC) in Philadelphia, following his Jan. 6 arrest. The next day, La was found unresponsive in his cell. FDC officers immediately administered CPR and several doses of NARCAN and called for medical assistance.

Local emergency medical services arrived on site and took over resuscitation efforts. At approximately 2:38 p.m., La was transported by EMS to Thomas Jefferson University Hospital in Philadelphia, where he was admitted in critical condition.

Throughout the evening of Jan. 7, La remained in critical condition, with medical evaluations indicating limited brain function. The following day, Jan. 8, La was diagnosed with anoxic brain injury, post cardiac arrest, shock and multiple organ failures. He continued receiving care in the hospital’s Neuro Intensive Care Unit. Later that day, medical staff reported complete renal failure and no brain activity, and La was being fully supported by a respirator. Family members were notified and visited him at the hospital.

On Jan. 9, 2026, at 3:22 a.m., La was pronounced deceased by hospital staff.

La was admitted to the United States in 1981 as a refugee and became a lawful permanent resident a year later, but lost his status after committing a long list of crimes over the course of two decades. ICE arrested him Jan. 6, 2026, outside his Upper Darby residence and detained him at the Federal Detention Center in Philadelphia.

La’s criminal history includes:

Oct. 28, 1994: Adjudicated delinquent for simple assault by the Court of Common Pleas of Delaware County.

Nov. 21, 1997: Adjudicated delinquent for receiving stolen property by the Court of Common Pleas of Delaware County.

April 10, 2000: Convicted of robbery, criminal conspiracy, and theft by the Court of Common Pleas of Delaware County; sentenced to incarceration for three to 23 months.

Aug. 1, 2002: Convicted of driving under the influence by the Municipal Court of Philadelphia County; sentenced to incarceration for 72 hours followed by probation for six months.

May 6, 2008: Convicted of forgery by the Court of Common Pleas of Chester County; sentenced to probation for three years.

March 1, 2010: Convicted of intentional possession of a controlled substance by the Court of Common Pleas of Chester County; sentenced to probation for one year.

Jan. 19, 2011: Re-sentenced to incarceration for 60 days to 12 months by the Court of Common Pleas of Chester County after violating probation terms.

May 19, 2014: Convicted of receiving stolen property by the Court of Common Pleas of Delaware County; sentenced to incarceration for 12 months.

July 23, 2021: Convicted of intentional possession of a controlled substance by the Court of Common Pleas of Delaware County; sentenced to incarceration for 12 months.

Oct. 25, 2022: Convicted of forgery by the Court of Common Pleas of Montgomery County; sentenced to incarceration for a minimum of five months and eight days to a maximum of 11 months, followed by probation for one year.

ICE makes official notifications to Congress, nongovernmental organization stakeholders and the media upon official reports of in-custody alien deaths and posts news releases with relevant details on ICE's public website. You may access this information in ICE’s Newsroom.

Congressional requirements described in the DHS Appropriations Act of 2018 require ICE to publicize all reports regarding in-custody deaths within 90 days. You may access these reports on ICE Detainee Death Reporting page.

ICE is committed to ensuring that all those in custody reside in safe, secure and humane environments. Comprehensive medical care is provided from the moment individuals arrive and throughout the entirety of their stay. All people in ICE custody receive medical, dental and mental health intake screenings within 12 hours of arriving at each detention facility; a full health assessment within 14 days of entering ICE custody or arrival at a facility; access to medical appointments; and 24-hour emergency care. At no time during detention is a detained alien denied emergency care.