Family of Upper Darby man who died in ICE custody pushes for answers - WHYY
Skip to content
Community
Government Accountability
Immigration
Philadelphia
Policing
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Michael La, 34, has “a lot of memories” from the summers he spent as a child with his uncle, Parady La, who died Jan. 9 while in U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement custody.
“He was like a father figure to me,” Michael said of his uncle. “My parents split up at a really early age of my life. I was a baby, so I didn’t get to see my two parents together, and my dad really wasn’t in my life, right? So [Parady] was the one that connected me to that side of my family.”
Parady La would drive two hours to Michael’s home in Allentown and bring him back to Philadelphia during Michael’s summer vacation. There, Michael recalled that his uncle would give him and other kids money for ice cream when the Mister Softee truck came by.
“He always put himself aside and looked out for his family,” Michael said.
WHYY thanks our sponsors — become a WHYY sponsor
Michael and Parady La’s other family members,
friends
and loved ones are mourning his loss and celebrating his life at a memorial service in Upper Darby on Friday, even as they push for information about the circumstances that led to the 46-year-old’s death last week.
Michael started a
GoFundMe
for the family to help pay for funeral expenses and support Parady La’s 23-year-old daughter, Jazmine La. Donations will also go toward the family’s efforts to pursue legal action against ICE and Federal Detention Center Philadelphia.
What happened to Parady La?
According to Michael, on Jan. 6, Parady La asked his cousin if she needed anything from the grocery store. Hours later, family members found his car, empty, parked by the side of the road a half-mile away. Parady La called later that day and informed his family that ICE agents had pulled him over and asked for his ID, and then detained him.
Michael, who lives in Florida, said his cousin called him at 3:30 p.m. on Jan. 8 and told him Parady La was in the hospital, and was brain dead.
“One thing is huge, is that your family member, who’s been here their whole life … that he’s being sent to a country he’s never been to before,” he said. “So we’re dealing with that in 24 hours, and a little after 24 hours, we hear that he’s in the hospital, brain dead. So it’s just shocking and really confusing on top of that.”
ICE latest: What to know
Philly is among many U.S. cities to
see major protests
after an ICE agent shot and killed Renee Good in Minneapolis.
In New Jersey, lawmakers have passed three bills designed to
protect immigrants from ICE raids
.
In Delaware, Avelo says it plans to
end deportation flights
amid public backlash.
Here’s what to know about your rights if you’re an
immigrant living in Philly
.
According to a Jan. 10
statement
by Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Parady La was “receiving treatment for severe drug withdrawal” while in detention at FDC Philadelphia. On Jan. 7, the statement reads, Parady “was found unresponsive in his cell.” The statement said that FDC officers administered CPR and several doses of NARCAN and called for medical assistance.
Parady La was admitted to Thomas Jefferson University Hospital that evening in critical condition, and pronounced dead the morning of Jan. 9, ICE officials said.
For Michael and Parady La’s family, ICE’s account “didn’t add up.”
Michael, who flew into Philadelphia hours after his uncle passed away, said his family’s understanding is that Parady La informed officers that he was going through fentanyl withdrawal soon after he was detained. They’re questioning why NARCAN, which is used for opioid overdoses, was administered to Parady La when he was
experiencing withdrawal symptoms
.
WHYY thanks our sponsors — become a WHYY sponsor
“As we keep fighting for information, we’re finding out that there’s like levels of information that just become locked, you know?” he said. “We’re still fighting for answers and still trying to figure out what’s going on.”
Michael said his family now has a legal team and is going to pursue legal action against FDC Philadelphia and ICE.
“This fight isn’t about deportation,” Michael said. “It’s about the care that each and every person needs when they are in custody, whether it is in ICE custody, FDC, or, you know, a different federal agency … If you bring somebody in your home, I feel like it’s your duty to make sure that they’re cared for in your home.”
Shut Down Detention Campaign, a coalition of organizations and individuals fighting to end immigrant detention, said in a press statement that Parady La’s death was “completely preventable and is a direct result of egregious medical neglect.”  According to the group, “several sources” said that Parady La “told staff he was going through fentanyl withdrawal and repeatedly requested care after vomiting several times throughout January 6th.”
In its statement about Parady La’s death, ICE said it “is committed to ensuring that all those in custody reside in safe, secure and humane environments.”
“Comprehensive medical care is provided from the moment individuals arrive and throughout the entirety of their stay … At no time during detention is a detained alien denied emergency care,” the statement reads.
Related Content
Community
Billy Penn
‘This is not acceptable in Philadelphia’: ICE raid training aims to prep residents for possible encounters
The “Know Your Rights” trainings, which have served over 1,000 people, provide information and tactics. Residents say they’re needed and useful.
2 weeks ago
Parady La is the fourth person to
die in ICE custody
at a Pennsylvania detention center since December 2023. Nationwide, 32 people
died in ICE custody in 2025
, making it the deadliest year since 2004.
Born in a refugee camp in Thailand, Parady La was 2 years old when he and his family fled the Cambodian genocide and arrived in Philadelphia in 1982.
ICE’s statement on Parady La’s death describes him as a “criminal illegal alien from Cambodia,” and lists his criminal history, including a number of misdemeanor convictions.
Michael said his uncle’s struggle with substance abuse was heightened by the death of Parady La’s younger brother, John Lar, who was shot and killed in 2005.
But for Michael, Parady La “was an American,” he said, and “he was failed.”
Get daily updates from WHYY News!
The free WHYY News Daily newsletter delivers the most important local stories to your inbox.
Enter your email here
Share this
Facebook
Twitter
Email
WHYY is your source for fact-based, in-depth journalism and information. As a nonprofit organization, we rely on financial support from readers like you. Please
give today.
You may also like
Community
‘The World in One Place’: Upper Darby celebrates 8th annual International Festival
The festival celebrates the township’s diverse immigrant communities, even as the region grapples with increased immigration enforcement.
4 months ago
Community
After ICE raids, Norristown and Princeton communities are stepping up to help families impacted by detention
Advocates say recent immigration enforcement has left families struggling to cope both financially and mentally. Grassroots efforts seek to offer humanitarian relief.
6 months ago
Listen
1:54
Community
Pennsylvania advocates call for shutdown of Moshannon after ICE detainee’s death
Chaofeng Ge, 32, is the 11th person to die in ICE custody since the start of the Trump administration.
6 months ago
Listen
1:29
About Emily Neil
Emily Neil is a WHYY News reporter covering Bucks and Montgomery counties.
Read more
@E_B_Neil
eneil@whyy.org
Want a digest of WHYY’s programs, events & stories?
Sign up for our weekly newsletter.
Enter your email here
Together we can reach 100% of WHYY’s fiscal year goal
Donate
Learn about WHYY Member benefits
Ways to Donate