Career criminal, illegal alien in ICE custody passes away at local hospital | ICE Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( Lock Locked padlock ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. --> En Español Contact Us Quick Links INFO Due to the lapse in federal funding, this website will not be actively managed. More info --> Watch Live at 11:30 a.m. ET: Results of Nationwide Law Enforcement Effort Press Conference ICE Check-in for Aliens Get information about how to check in with your local ICE Office here . Reportándose con ICE: Obtenga información sobre cómo reportarse a su oficina local de ICE aquí . View in other languages Menu Call 1-866-DHS-2-ICE to report suspicious activity Report Crime Main Navigation " class="we-megamenu-nolink" title="Click here to open the About Us menu"> About Us Mission Who We Are Leadership History Information Library Career Opportunities ICE Fallen Officers Fact Sheets Learn facts about U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Learn More About ICE " class="we-megamenu-nolink" title="Click here to open the Enforcement and Removal Operations menu"> Enforcement and Removal Operations Identify and Arrest Criminal Alien Program Fugitive Operations Law Enforcement Partnerships 287g Program Immigration Fraud Prosecutions Detain Immigration Detainers Detention Facilities Health Service Corps Detention Management Facility Inspections Family Residential Standards Remove Removal Recalcitrant Countries Self-Deportation Immigration Enforcement Frequently Asked Questions ERO Statistics Dashboard How ICE Enforces Immigration Laws ICE identifies and apprehends removable aliens, detains these individuals and removes illegal aliens from the United States. Learn more about ERO ICE Check-in Learn more about how to check in with a local ICE office Get information about how to check in with your local ICE Office here . ERO e File A uniform platform for the filing of electronic G-28s with ERO and the scheduling of legal visits through ERO eFile’s Detention Facility Appointment Scheduler (DFAS). Learn more about ERO eFile " class="we-megamenu-nolink" title="Click here to open the Homeland Security Investigations menu"> Homeland Security Investigations Operational Priorities Protecting National Security Preventing Crimes of Exploitation Operation Identify Ensuring Public Safety Upholding the Law in Global Trade Investigating Cybercrime Combating Financial Crime Investigations Outreach Programs Partnerships Centers &amp; Labs Recognize &amp; Report Crime Securing the Homeland Combating cross-border criminal activity is a critical component of the overall safety, security and well-being of our nation. Learn more about HSI News about HSI Student and Exchange Visitor Program SEVP is a part of the National Security Investigations Division and acts as a bridge for government organizations that have an interest in information on nonimmigrants whose primary reason for coming to the United States is to be students. Learn more about SEVP " class="we-megamenu-nolink" title="Click here to open the Newsroom menu"> Newsroom News Releases and Statements Latest High-Profile Arrests Feature Stories Multimedia Social Media Speeches and Testimonies ERO Statistics Dashboard ICE's ERO officers uphold United States immigration laws by focusing on individuals who present the greatest risk to national security, public safety or border security. View the most recent statistics 2024 Year in Review ICE’s FY 2024 Annual Report View the annual report Media Inquiries Breadcrumb ICE Newsroom Career criminal, illegal alien in ICE custody passes away at local hospital Share Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Email this Page Print this Page January 10, 2026 Philadelphia , PA , United States Detainee Death Notifications Career criminal, illegal alien in ICE custody passes away at local hospital PHILADELPHIA, Penn. — Parady La, a 46-year-old criminal illegal alien from Cambodia, died Jan. 9 at the Thomas Jefferson University Hospital. La was being housed at and receiving treatment for severe drug withdrawal at the Federal Detention Center (FDC) in Philadelphia, following his Jan. 6 arrest. The next day, La was found unresponsive in his cell. FDC officers immediately administered CPR and several doses of NARCAN and called for medical assistance. Local emergency medical services arrived on site and took over resuscitation efforts. At approximately 2:38 p.m., La was transported by EMS to Thomas Jefferson University Hospital in Philadelphia, where he was admitted in critical condition. Throughout the evening of Jan. 7, La remained in critical condition, with medical evaluations indicating limited brain function. The following day, Jan. 8, La was diagnosed with anoxic brain injury, post cardiac arrest, shock and multiple organ failures. He continued receiving care in the hospital’s Neuro Intensive Care Unit. Later that day, medical staff reported complete renal failure and no brain activity, and La was being fully supported by a respirator. Family members were notified and visited him at the hospital. On Jan. 9, 2026, at 3:22 a.m., La was pronounced deceased by hospital staff. La was admitted to the United States in 1981 as a refugee and became a lawful permanent resident a year later, but lost his status after committing a long list of crimes over the course of two decades. ICE arrested him Jan. 6, 2026, outside his Upper Darby residence and detained him at the Federal Detention Center in Philadelphia. La’s criminal history includes: Oct. 28, 1994: Adjudicated delinquent for simple assault by the Court of Common Pleas of Delaware County. Nov. 21, 1997: Adjudicated delinquent for receiving stolen property by the Court of Common Pleas of Delaware County. April 10, 2000: Convicted of robbery, criminal conspiracy, and theft by the Court of Common Pleas of Delaware County; sentenced to incarceration for three to 23 months. Aug. 1, 2002: Convicted of driving under the influence by the Municipal Court of Philadelphia County; sentenced to incarceration for 72 hours followed by probation for six months. May 6, 2008: Convicted of forgery by the Court of Common Pleas of Chester County; sentenced to probation for three years. March 1, 2010: Convicted of intentional possession of a controlled substance by the Court of Common Pleas of Chester County; sentenced to probation for one year. Jan. 19, 2011: Re-sentenced to incarceration for 60 days to 12 months by the Court of Common Pleas of Chester County after violating probation terms. May 19, 2014: Convicted of receiving stolen property by the Court of Common Pleas of Delaware County; sentenced to incarceration for 12 months. July 23, 2021: Convicted of intentional possession of a controlled substance by the Court of Common Pleas of Delaware County; sentenced to incarceration for 12 months. Oct. 25, 2022: Convicted of forgery by the Court of Common Pleas of Montgomery County; sentenced to incarceration for a minimum of five months and eight days to a maximum of 11 months, followed by probation for one year. ICE makes official notifications to Congress, nongovernmental organization stakeholders and the media upon official reports of in-custody alien deaths and posts news releases with relevant details on ICE's public website. You may access this information in ICE’s Newsroom . Congressional requirements described in the DHS Appropriations Act of 2018 require ICE to publicize all reports regarding in-custody deaths within 90 days. You may access these reports on ICE Detainee Death Reporting page . ICE is committed to ensuring that all those in custody reside in safe, secure and humane environments. Comprehensive medical care is provided from the moment individuals arrive and throughout the entirety of their stay. All people in ICE custody receive medical, dental and mental health intake screenings within 12 hours of arriving at each detention facility; a full health assessment within 14 days of entering ICE custody or arrival at a facility; access to medical appointments; and 24-hour emergency care. At no time during detention is a detained alien denied emergency care. Updated: 01/10/2026 Return to top Media Inquiries For media inquiries about ICE activities, operations or policies, contact ICE's Office of Public Affairs at ICEMedia@ice.dhs.gov . About Us Enforcement and Removal Operations Homeland Security Investigations Newsroom ICE Contact Center Report suspicious activity: 1-866-DHS-2-ICE ICE.gov An official website of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security ICE USWDS Footer Links About ICE Accessibility FOIA Requests Privacy Policy DHS.gov Archive No FEAR Act Data Site Links Performance Reports Inspector General The White House DHS Components USA.gov Mobile Menu Bar Menu Search En Español Contact Main Navigation on Mobile Devices About Us Mission Who We Are Leadership History Information Library Career Opportunities ICE Fallen Officers Enforcement and Removal Operations Identify and Arrest Criminal Alien Program Fugitive Operations Law Enforcement Partnerships 287g Program Immigration Fraud Prosecutions Detain Immigration Detainers Detention Facilities Health Service Corps Detention Management Facility Inspections Family Residential Standards Remove Recalcitrant Countries Removal Self-Deportation Immigration Enforcement Frequently Asked Questions ERO Statistics Dashboard Homeland Security Investigations Operational Priorities Protecting National Security Preventing Crimes of Exploitation Operation Identify Ensuring Public Safety Upholding the Law in Global Trade Investigating Cybercrime Combating Financial Crime Investigations Outreach Programs Partnerships Centers &amp; Labs Recognize &amp; Report Crime Newsroom News Releases and Statements Latest High-Profile Arrests Feature Stories Multimedia Social Media Speeches and Testimonies Search Search Home Who We Are Newsroom Information Library Contact ICE Careers En Español