Man held in ICE custody at Philly detention center dies &#8211; NBC10 Philadelphia Skip to content Breaking Live updates: Philly region digs out after weekend snow storm Main Navigation Search Search for: Weather Local Sports NBC10 Responds Entertainment Investigators Videos Newsletters Watch 24/7 Create profile / Log in Dashboard Email preferences Sign out Trending Submit a News Tip Your Daily NBC10 Forecast Find It on 10 2026 Winter Olympics The Trump Administration Battleground Politics Immigration Stream NBC10 24/7 📲 Expand 184 School Closings Philadelphia Loved ones want answers after man dies in Philly ICE custody after withdrawal Parady La, 46, was being held in ICE custody in a Philadelphia detention center when he suffered a drug withdrawal and died on Jan. 9, 2026, according to officials. By Emily Rose Grassi and Johnny Archer &bull; Published January 14, 2026 &bull; Updated on January 14, 2026 at 11:29 pm BOOKMARKER NBC Universal, Inc. A family from Upper Darby is demanding answers for their loved one who died in ICE custody. NBC10&#8217;s Johnny Archer spoke with the man&#8217;s family. Loved ones are wondering what happened after a man who was being held in ICE custody at a Philadelphia detention center died from a reported drug withdrawal. On Jan. 6, Parady La, 46, left his Upper Darby home to pickup groceries and that was the last time his family would see him alive. Stream Philadelphia News for free, 24/7, wherever you are with NBC10. &nbsp; WATCH HERE When La was picked up by ICE, his family said that they had no idea and they searched for him for hours before they got the call learning he was detained. Officers at the detention center reported that they found La unresponsive in his cell the next day, did CPR on him and administered several doses of Narcan before calling for medical assistance.&nbsp; First responders arrived to the detention center and took La to a local hospital where he was held in critical condition, officials said.&nbsp; La was at the hospital for two days before he died around 3:22 a.m. on Jan. 9, officials explained.&nbsp; "My family who lives in Upper Darby are mourning this loss. Me? I'm just trying to figure out what going on," his nephew Michael La, who lives in Florida, told NBC10. Local Breaking news and the stories that matter to your neighborhood. First Alert Weather Jun 9, 2025 Your daily NBC10 First Alert Weather forecast First Alert Weather 10 hours ago How to protect yourself as dangerous cold, negative wind chills expected According to ICE, La came to the United States in 1981 as a refugee before becoming a permanent resident one year later.&nbsp; "He came here at two years old," Michael said. "It's a Cambodian man when in reality, no, he's an American man. He's never been to Cambodia. Never stepped foot in Cambodia." La lost his legal status after allegedly committing several crimes between 1994 and 2022, ICE reported. "No matter what side you're on, you can clearly see that they're trying to dehumanize somebody," Michael told NBC10. Darienne Dorazio has been friends with La for 25 years and never imagined someone she knows would go through something like this. "Parady was just a really sweet guy. He would take me shopping. He loved fashion. He was always the best dressed. In the group of us, he was the quiet reserved one," Dorazio told NBC10. "I know so many immigrants growing up in the Upper Darby area. I knew that this was going to come here. And I never, ever suspected that it would be this horrific or that I was just praying that it wouldn't be somebody that I knew that had to experience it. So it's, it's tragic." NBC10 has reached out to ICE regarding this case and we have not yet heard back. This article tagged under: Philadelphia on now Live: NBC10 News @ 6AM Trending Stories Philadelphia How much snow fell in your neighborhood? Look at the totals across Philly region First Alert Weather List of school closures, delays across Pennsylvania, NJ, Delaware Delaware 2 shot, including teen, in Wilmington on Monday afternoon, police say Pennsylvania 3 people found dead after barricade in Bucks County, suspect in custody: Police First Alert Weather Philly's Snow Emergency to end, but offices and in-person schools remain closed Weather Forecast Facebook Instagram Youtube About NBC10 Philadelphia Our News Standards Share a News Tip or Feedback Share a Tip for the NBC10 Investigators Newsletters Connect With Us About the Comcast Center Campus NBC Sports Philadelphia Xfinity: Internet, TV, streaming, more WCAU Public Inspection File WCAU Accessibility WCAU Employment Information NEW Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices FCC Applications Terms of Service Advertise with us Send Feedback CA Notice Ad Choices Copyright © 2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC. All rights reserved Close Menu Create profile / Log in Dashboard Search for: Newsletters Local U.S. and World Politics Weather Weather Alerts School Closings See It, Share It Sports Phillies Eagles Sixers Flyers NBC Sports Philadelphia Investigators NBC10 Responds Submit a tip Watch The Lineup Philly Live Entertainment About NBC10 Philadelphia Our News Standards Share a News Tip or Feedback Share a Consumer Complaint Share Photos and Video Watch Live TV Community NBC Sports Philadelphia TV Schedule Our Apps Newsletters Contests Cozi TV Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Contact Us