Title: Dozens of protesters arrested after chaining themselves in front of San Francisco ICE building
Published: 2025-12-16 16:40:00+00:00

Dozens of protesters arrested after chaining themselves in front of San Francisco ICE building

SAN FRANCISCO (KGO) -- Dozens of protesters were arrested after chaining themselves across the two main entrances of the San Francisco ICE building Tuesday morning.

The protesters were demanding "love over cruelty" in a protest that started early in the morning on Sansome Street in the Financial District.

Demonstrators held signs and marched outside, with some chaining themselves to the two main entrances of the building.

The protesters say their goal was to shut down the courts, pushing back against what they say have been unjust arrests made by ICE over the last several months.

MORE: Federal judge orders SF ICE building to improve 'inhumane' conditions immediately

The Ninth Circuit court is requiring the Department of Justice to improve "inhumane" conditions inside the ICE holding cells at 630 Sansome in San Francisco.

"We are shutting down the court," Limei Chen said. "We are ensuring that there are no arrests that are happening today from 630 Sansome. People are being detained up there. They're being held and then sent to detention sites with terrible conditions, as we know, and who knows where after that."

After hours of making a human barrier and chaining themselves to entrances at the San Francisco Immigration building, 44 people in total were arrested.

"We don't want ICE. We don't want DHS. We don't. We don't want them in our city. We don't want them messing with hardworking immigrants. We're just trying to find a path to citizenship," said Dwight Ost, SF Resident and protester.

Alexandra De Martini said her husband was one of those arrested.

"About a month ago, during a routine green card interview after my petition to sponsor my husband had been approved, my husband was detained," De Martini said.

Her husband is from Kenya and they have been together for three years. She says after he was arrested, she suddenly found herself on her own.

MORE: Immigrant rights groups protest, demand Marin Co. Sheriff's Office stop cooperating with ICE

She says she wasn't given any reason for his arrest.

"I was told he was a criminal, and even his paperwork has no criminal allegations," De Martini said. "My petition to support him had been approved. I asked repeatedly, 'why is he here? Why is he here?' And I was not given a clear answer."

De Martini says they are in limbo until her husband's next hearing.

"I'm out here because I want people to know that in San Francisco, people are being taken, they're being taken in front of their family and their children."

More than 100 people chanted as Department of Homeland security officers were assisted by San Francisco firefighters with bolt cutters to cut through the chains. Something a spokesperson for the fire department said they hadn't done before.

"So we need to have accountability. San Francisco is supposed to be a sanctuary city. That means no city or county resources are supposed to be helping," said Gala King, Co-executive director of interfaith movement for human integrity.

In a statement with fire department said in part:

"The San Francisco Fire Department works with numerous agencies at the local, state, and federal levels. When called upon to assist those in need-protecting life, property, and the environment-we do so with respect and integrity."

Organizers chose 630 Sansome's building after reporting more than 120 immigrants have been arrested here between May and October of this year.

"Folks are really terrified to come to these appointments because they know there is a really good chance that they will be kidnapped and disappeared from these communities and as lawyer it's been heartbreaking and infuriating to come to these appointments to be in this building with folks who are here doing exactly what these agencies are telling them to do," said Susan Beaty, Attorney California collaborative for immigrant justice.

On the side of the building, there was a line of people with immigration appointments waiting to go in. Some in tears telling us they were grateful strangers were fighting for them.

"I want to say thank you to everyone who is here. Who came here and is supporting us," said one of the women waiting in line for her immigration appointment.

After hours of protest, all appointments were cancelled for the day. Faith and community advocates who organized the action viewed that as a victory.

Luz Pena: "Do you believe those people were at risk today?"

"Yeah, absolutely," said Beaty.

ABC7 News reached out to the Department of Homeland Security about the protests on Tuesday.

Full statement from ICE:

"On December 16, over 200 rioters obstructed law enforcement outside the ICE processing center in San Francisco, California. Rioters chained themselves to the building's front gate and doors, impeding law enforcement operations. The San Francisco Fire Department arrived on the scene and assisted in cutting the chains. ICE officers and FPS then arrested 44 of the obstructing rioters, all of whom appear to be U.S. citizens. This is a developing situation under an ongoing investigation, and ICE will update as necessary."