Family of Mexican father fatally shot by ICE near Chicago &#x27;wants justice to be done&#x27; IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Skip to Content NBC News Logo Politics U.S. News World Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut Sports Health Business Shopping Tipline Culture Science Subscribe Share & Save&nbsp;&mdash; Saved Newsletters Profile Subscription Preferences Search Search Sections U.S. News Politics World Business Sports Investigations Culture &amp; Trends Health Science Tech Weather VIDEO Photos NBC Select NBC Asian America NBC BLK NBC Latino NBC OUT Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut tv Today Nightly News Meet the Press Dateline Featured NBC News Now Nightly Films Stay Tuned Special Features Newsletters Podcasts Listen Now More From NBC NBC.COM NBCU Academy Peacock NEXT STEPS FOR VETS NBC News Site Map Help Follow NBC News news Alerts There are no new alerts at this time Search Search Facebook Twitter Email SMS Blue Sky Whatsapp Print Reddit Flipboard Pinterest Linkedin Latest Stories Politics U.S. News World Sports Health Business Shopping Tipline Culture Science Immigration Family of Mexican father fatally shot by ICE near Chicago &#x27;wants justice to be done&#x27; With law enforcement releasing little information about the death of Silverio Villegas González, one advocate said they &quot;have to stitch this together ourselves.&quot; Activists, friends and community members gather near where an ICE agent shot Silverio Villegas González in Franklin Park, Ill., last Friday. Scott Olson / Getty Images Add NBC News to Google Sept. 18, 2025, 3:00 PM EDT By Nicole Acevedo Nearly a week after a Mexican immigrant was fatally shot by an immigration officer during a traffic stop in the Chicago area, his family in Mexico and community members continue to seek answers as they call for more transparency in the probe looking into the sequence of events surrounding his death. The Mexican Consulate in Chicago and local police confirmed the the FBI is leading the investigation into the death of 38-year-old Silverio Villegas González, a single father of two boys. A spokesperson for the FBI Chicago Field Office did not confirm or deny their involvement in the investigation, but told NBC News in an email that "as a general matter, we examine the facts with consideration of federal criminal statutes. We then proceed as appropriate, whether by investigating or referring the matter to the relevant partners." With law enforcement releasing little information about the ongoing probe, some community members in the Chicago area feel like they "have to stitch this together" themselves, with "no expectation of a real investigation," Brandon Lee, an organizer with the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights. "The community is expected to do their own." Speaking to Telemundo Chicago from Mexico, Jorge Villegas González, Silverio's brother, said his family "wants justice to be done." "It's completely devastating, the way he lost his life. It's not fair," Jorge said in Spanish. "It doesn't seem logical to me to use lethal force like that against someone who is completely unarmed." What's known about the incident Relatives and friends of Villegas González said he was driving to work Friday morning after having dropped off his sons, who are 6 and 3, at school and day care. Blanca Mora, Villegas González's girlfriend, told Telemundo Chicago that she had been messaging him that morning. "He said he was going to get something to eat and head to work. But after that, I didn't hear anything," Mora said in Spanish. That's because that morning Villegas González was fatally shot by an Immigration and Customs Enforcement officer in Franklin Park, a suburb of Chicago. According to ICE, two officers pulled ﻿Villegas González over, but he resisted arrest and attempted to flee the scene. Silverio Villegas González. Obtained by NBC News Surveillance footage from a nearby nail salon broadcast by a local CBS News TV station shows an SUV blocking Villegas González's car. Two ICE agents are seen by Villegas González’s car, one on the passenger side and the other on the driver's side. Villegas González starts backing up. As he drives his car forward, the ICE officer standing by the passenger side attempts to go after Villegas González; the other officer is not visible in the video anymore. One ICE officer " was hit by the car and dragged a significant distance, " according to a statement from the Department of Homeland Security, which added the officer "sustained multiple injuries and is in stable condition." "Fearing for his own life, the officer fired his weapon," striking Villegas González, DHS stated. Surveillance footage from a nearby auto shop captured the sounds of at least two gun shots. A video from a witness shows the two ICE officers removing an injured Villegas González from his car after he crashed into a cargo truck. A video from the cargo truck driver obtained by Telemundo Chicago shows both ICE officers providing first aid to Villegas González. According to ICE, both Villegas González and the injured officer were taken to a hospital. Villegas González died of multiple gunshot wounds at the hospital. The ICE agent, who has not yet been named, was released from the hospital after receiving care for back injuries, lacerations to the hand and knee tears . DHS Assistant Secretary Tricia McLaughlin said the injured officer "followed his training, used appropriate force, and properly enforced the law to protect the public and law enforcement." Add NBC News to Google New details about deadly ICE confrontation near Chicago 01:36 DHS policies, which also apply to ICE, state that deadly force should not be used against someone whose actions are only a threat to themselves or property. This does not apply if the person poses an “imminent threat of death or serious physical injury to the officer” or anyone else, according to a 2023 report from the U.S. Government Accountability Office. The policy also states that “firearms shall not be discharged solely to disable moving vehicles." Neither of the officers involved in Villegas González's death were wearing body cameras, a senior DHS official told NBC News . According to ICE policies , agents are required to wear body cameras and activate them “as soon as practicable at the beginning of an Enforcement Activity and deactivation when the activity is concluded.” But because body cameras have not yet been distributed across all of ICE, the requirements only apply to officers in places where the cameras have been given out. ICE did not say what the requirement was for the officers involved in Villegas González’s fatal shooting. At a news conference on Monday, Illinois Gov. JB Pritzker, a Democrat, said: "We’ve asked ICE for all of the information around it, they have given very little ... This is the most unusual situation I’ve seen in my entire lifetime, where we have no transparency and the federal government is not policing itself.” Jorge Villegas González, Silverio’s brother, told Telemundo Chicago: "There are millions of undocumented Latinos in the United States — this happened to us now, who knows if tomorrow or the day after tomorrow it may happen to someone else. Let this end now.” Who was Villegas González? Immigration authorities say they were after Villegas González because he was not legally present in the United States and had " a history of reckless driving." "He is not what he is being accused of," Blanca Mora, Villegas González’s girlfriend, said in Spanish. "He has no crime." An NBC News review of publicly available records found that Villegas González had never been criminally charged. He did plead guilty to four traffic violations, including speeding, as recent as 2013. "I feel bad," Mora said as she described Villegas González as a single father of two boys who " was a very serious, reserved person who didn't like problems . He was very responsible." According to the Mexican Consulate in Chicago, Villegas González was originally from the state of Michoacán. He worked as a cook at a restaurant near the Franklin Park area. A rally was held Sunday near where Villegas González was shot and killed. Scott Olson / Getty Images Juan Antonio Hernández, the owner of the restaurant where Villegas González worked, described him as a hard worker in an interview with Telemundo Chicago . "How could he be a criminal," Hernández said in Spanish, "if he would arrive at 11 a.m. and stay until 9 or 10 p.m., when we would stay here working. From there, he would go and pick up his children and go home." "He had just dropped his children at the day care and school; [they were] waiting for him to come back for them, but he never did," Hernández said. A memorial full of candles, flowers, pro-immigration signs and pictures of Villegas González now stands at the site of the fatal shooting. The Mexican Consulate in Chicago told NBC News in a statement that the Villegas González’s family had requested their assistance and support to repatriate his remains to Michoacán. "The Consulate is in contact with Cook County forensic authorities to expedite this process once the examinations are completed," the statement reads. They are also assisting the family with custody matters for Villegas González’s children "and will coordinate all necessary legal actions for their reunification with the family." Nicole Acevedo Nicole Acevedo is a news reporter for NBC News. Laura Strickler , Maggie Vespa , Selina Guevara and Didi Martinez contributed . About Contact Help Careers Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service NBC News Subscription Terms of Service NBC News Sitemap Closed Captioning Advertise NBC Select &copy;&nbsp;2026 NBCUniversal Media, LLC NBC News Logo Today Logo