Federal Agents Detain Workers at a Vermont Dairy Farm | Civil Eats Federal Agents Detain Workers at a Vermont Dairy Farm | Civil Eats Support Login Gift a membership My account Food +&nbsp;Policy Farming Health Climate Toggle menu Support My account My account Profile Email newsletters Gift membership Help Join Log in END PICO MENU ITEMS --> X News and commentary about the American food system. My account Join Log in --> Support Food +&nbsp;Policy Business The Farm&nbsp;Bill Food and Farm&nbsp;Labor Food&nbsp;Justice Indigenous&nbsp;Foodways Labeling Local&nbsp;Food School&nbsp;Food Technology Farming Agroecology Animal&nbsp;Ag Farmer&nbsp;Profiles Regenerative Agriculture Rural&nbsp;America Urban Agriculture Young&nbsp;Farmers Health Antibiotics Coronavirus Food&nbsp;Access Food&nbsp;Safety Nutrition Climate Environment Food&nbsp;Waste GMOs Pesticides Seafood Water About Who&nbsp;We Are Awards Board of Directors Advisory Board Become a Member Supporters Donate Civil Eats Membership Newsletter Courses Contributors&nbsp;FAQ Contact Work&nbsp;With Us Civil Eats&nbsp;TV Food Policy Tracker Sign In X Federal Agents Detain Workers at a Vermont Dairy&nbsp;Farm Worker advocates describe it as an on-farm immigration raid. The Department of Homeland Security disputes that characterization. By Lisa Held April 24, 2025 Read more about Food Policy Tracker Related How We Report Our Stories At a time when mistrust in journalism is at an all-time high, we continue to abide by the standards of editorial independence established by the Institute for Nonprofit News. We make no endorsements and take no sides. In the coming months, we&#8217;ll be focusing more intently on reporting about our government, providing context and analysis to encourage critical thinking about our food system. For more on how we work, visit our About page . --> April 24, 2025 – On Monday, armed agents from U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP), a division of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), raided a Vermont dairy farm and arrested eight immigrant workers. The migrants, who ranged in age from 22 to 41, worked at Pleasant Valley Farms, just a few miles from the Canadian border. Unlock the Full Story with a Civil Eats Membership Expand your understanding of food systems as a Civil Eats member. Enjoy unlimited access to our groundbreaking reporting, engage with experts, and connect with a community of changemakers. Join today Already a member? Login It may be the first time since President Trump took office that his escalating efforts around immigration enforcement and deportations directly landed on an American farm. Farmers rely heavily on immigrant labor. During a Senate Agriculture Committee hearing in February, Senator Peter Welch (D-Vermont) brought up the impact that immigration crackdowns could have on his state’s agriculture economy. “It&#8217;s very simple,” he said. “If you don&#8217;t have farm labor in Vermont, you don&#8217;t milk the cows.” At a cabinet meeting in early April, Trump made unclear statements about deporting farmworkers, saying that he would “slow it down” for farmers and that workers would “go out” and “come back as legal workers.” We’ll bring the news to you. Get the weekly Civil Eats newsletter, delivered to your inbox. Sign up today Sign up today In an emailed statement to Civil Eats, CBP Assistant Commissioner Hilton Beckham said that the action was not a raid targeting farmworkers. “Agents were called to a location at a dairy farm located about 2.5 miles from the Canadian border by a concerned citizen,” she said. “This was not a special operation or a worksite enforcement operation, however, when agents encounter individuals who are in the country illegally, they will take them into custody and determine their immigration disposition, including potentially turning those individuals over to other agencies.” The workers were members of Migrant Justice , an organization that fights for immigrant rights. According to Migrant Justice’s Will Lambek, “Such a call would have been a flimsy pretext at best, as Border Patrol entered farm property, chased workers through barns, and entered a private dwelling.” Lambek also said there was no evidence agents targeted the workers based on their organizing work with Migrant Justice, although the organization has reported being targeted by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) in the past. In March, ICE agents arrested farmworker activist Alfredo Juarez during a traffic stop in Washington state. Migrant Justice launched a petition and is holding a rally tonight at Burlington City Hall to call for the release of the workers. ( Link to this post .) Today’s food system is complex. Invest in nonprofit journalism that tells the whole story. Become a member today Become a member today You’d be a great Civil Eats supporter… Civil Eats is a reader-supported, nonprofit newsroom, and we count on our supporters to keep producing our award-winning work. Readers like you are the reason why we’re able to keep digging deep into stories you won’t find anywhere else. When you become a supporter , your contributions directly fund our journalism—from paying our reporters to keeping the internet on in our remote offices across the United States. Your support will also come with great benefits, including our award-winning newsletter, The Deep Dish, which is full of relevant and timely reporting, access to our Slack community, and online salons as a way to engage with reporters, food and agriculture experts, and each other. Lisa Held is Civil Eats’ senior staff reporter and contributing editor. Read more > Follow: Twitter Like the story? Join the conversation. Post a comment Read more about Food Policy Tracker Related More from Food Policy Tracker Lawmakers Seek to Extend Temporary Protected Status for Haitian Immigrants By Lisa Held January 26, 2026 Trump Administration Coordinated Secret ‘Working Group’ to Support Climate Rollbacks By Lisa Held January 23, 2026 Report Shows Food Prices Increased During Trump’s First&nbsp;Year By Rebekah Alvey January 21, 2026 After Rolling Back Regulations, USDA Holds Hearing on Salmonella By Lisa Held January 16, 2026 Popular How Artisan Grains Helped Skagit County Rebuild Its&nbsp;Economy By Jason Dove Mark January 26, 2026 SNAP Provisions Left Out of Government Funding&nbsp;Bills By Rebekah Alvey January 23, 2026 Op-Ed: The Government Wants You to Follow Their Food Pyramid. We Have a Better Alternative. By Grace Chamberlin , Anupama Joshi and Aviva Musicus January 23, 2026 Civil Eats’ Food Policy Tracker: What We Learned From Our First&nbsp;Year By The Civil Eats Editors January 21, 2026 Support us Food +&nbsp;Policy Business The Farm&nbsp;Bill Food and Farm&nbsp;Labor Food&nbsp;Justice Indigenous&nbsp;Foodways Labeling Local&nbsp;Food School&nbsp;Food Technology Farming Agroecology Animal&nbsp;Ag Farmer&nbsp;Profiles Regenerative Agriculture Rural&nbsp;America Urban Agriculture Young&nbsp;Farmers Health Antibiotics Coronavirus Food&nbsp;Access Food&nbsp;Safety Nutrition Climate Environment Food&nbsp;Waste GMOs Pesticides Seafood Water About Who&nbsp;We Are Awards Board of Directors Advisory Board Become a Member Supporters Donate Civil Eats Membership Newsletter Courses Contributors&nbsp;FAQ Contact Work&nbsp;With Us Civil Eats&nbsp;TV Food Policy Tracker Sign In © Civil Eats 2024. All rights reserved.