Title: Detainee Death Reporting
Published: 2020-03-16 00:00:00

One of the agency’s highest priorities is detained alien health care.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s (ICE) national detention standards require facilities to provide comprehensive medical, dental and mental health care from the moment aliens arrive at a facility and throughout their time in ICE custody.

Many aliens may not have received recent or reliable medical treatment for existing conditions prior to entering ICE custody. For some individuals, this may represent their first access to comprehensive medical care.

Detained Alien Deaths in ICE Custody

Any death that occurs in ICE custody is a significant cause for concern. ICE prioritizes the health, safety and well-being of all aliens in its custody.

In accordance with ICE national detention standards and policy, ICE employs a multilayered, interagency approach when a detained alien passes away in ICE custody. Each facility must maintain written protocols in accordance with the ICE detainee death policy.

In the event of all detainee deaths, the Field Office Director with oversight of the relevant facility or AOR must report the death within 12 hours to the Assistant Director for Field Operations, Custody Management, the JIC and OPLA.

Under agency protocols, the agency conducts medical reviews as well as oversight and compliance investigations, timely prepares reports based on the finding of reviews and shares reports with appropriate parties and stakeholders

The ICE Office of Professional Responsibility then examines the circumstances surrounding the individual’s death and drafts a report to determine whether the agency adhered to all policies and protocols.

Once ICE completes its review, the results are provided to ICE senior management and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Office of Civil Rights and Civil Liberties.

Reporting Detained Alien Deaths

In 2021, ICE issued a policy — Notification, Review, and Reporting Requirements for Detainee Deaths — that governs the initial notification, review and ongoing reporting about the death of an individual in ICE custody. In accordance with the policy, ICE notifies the relevant parties and reports the death of any detained alien in a timely, accurate and appropriate manner. ICE notifies the next of kin, appropriate consulate, relevant DHS and ICE stakeholders, U.S. Congress and the public about each detained alien death.

Additionally, ICE posts a news release with relevant details on the agency’s public website within two business days.

Congressional Requirements

Congressional requirements in the DHS Appropriations Bill (2018) obligate ICE to make public all reports regarding in custody deaths within 90 days. Each detained alien death, beginning with Fiscal Year 2018, is provided in the drop down below.