Immigration agents conduct second raid on Newark seafood market &#8226; New Jersey Monitor HOME NEWS Gov + Legislature Criminal Justice Education Energy Immigration Commentary ABOUT SUBSCRIBE DONATE Part of States Newsroom Gov + Legislature Criminal Justice Education Energy Immigration 16:51 News Story Immigration Immigration agents conduct second raid on Newark seafood market By: Sophie Nieto-Munoz - November 19, 2025 4:51 pm A masked, armed agent outside Ocean Seafood Depot during an immigration raid, Newark, NJ, Wednesday, Nov. 19, 2025. (Photo by Anne-Marie Caruso/New Jersey Monitor) NEWARK — Immigration enforcement and federal officials surrounded a seafood market in Newark Wednesday and detained workers in the second raid conducted at the warehouse this year. It’s unknown how many Ocean Seafood Depot workers were detained during the raid that started around 8 a.m. at the market on the corner of Adams and Delancey Streets. A U.S. Deparartment of Homeland Security spokesperson said it arrested 13 people. Advocates who conduct rapid responses to raids across the state said they are starting to hear from family members who are looking for their loved ones. “We’re trying to confirm how many workers, if they have a case — I think everybody’s going to be checking in with their folks,” said Li Adorno of Movimiento Cosecha. “We’re going to start to piece the answers together.” About 40 masked agents from different federal agencies — some wearing tactical gear and holding rifles — shut down the block of Adams Street to conduct the raid. Several workers were pulled out of the depot and given red wristbands to denote they were not detained. Jenny Garcia, a longtime immigration activist who responded to the raid Wednesday morning, said she spoke to people who said they were zip tied before being asked about their immigration status by Homeland Security Investigation and Federal Bureau of Investigations officials. “We’re seeing this pattern of this dehumanizing marking on who is allowed to leave the raid and who is going to be taken,” she said. About 12:30 p.m. the last agents pulled away in white vans and black SUVs as activists gathered on the sidewalk yelled at them to leave. Christine Cuttita, a spokeswoman for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said Homeland Security agents “executed a court-authorized search warrant as part of an active criminal investigation involving labor operations at Ocean Seafood.” She declined to comment further, citing an ongoing investigation. Federal officials had a warrant to conduct the Wednesday raid, unlike the first enforcement episode in January. During that raid in the first few days of President Donald Trump’s second term, several people, including a U.S. military veteran, were detained. Since then, immigration officials have been actively conducting raids across the state. Twenty-nine people were arrested during an August raid in Edison, and, two weeks ago, enforcement officials arrested 46 workers at an Avenel warehouse. Several of those detainees are still being held at Delaney Hall, a federal immigration jail in Newark. Workers waiting outside the market declined to speak with reporters Wednesday. The scene was tense between activists and some workers who said they voted for Trump and supported ICE raids at their workplace. One woman, who said her friend was taken, cried on the sidewalk as she hugged friends. Adorno noted there was “a lot more ICE presence this time around.” And he added that, this being the second raid at the seafood depot, some people are aware of the risk, but immigrant workers without legal status may still be taking jobs here. “If you may run the risk of being detained, you’re going to try to avoid any place where a raid has happened,” he said. “But the reality is that people are struggling. People need to work.” Newark Mayor Ras Baraka, a staunch advocate for immigrants who was arrested and charged with trespassing at Delaney Hall earlier this year, did not immediately respond for comment. His charges were later dropped. Rep. LaMonica McIver, who is facing trial over alleged assault during the scuffle outside the jail during Baraka’s arrest, said the Trump administration is “using fear as a tool.” “They have been doing so since Jan. 23 when they raided this same Newark market. We owe it to our neighbors to stand up for them,” she said on social media. “That’s exactly what I’ll keep doing.” Masked, armed agents outside Ocean Seafood Depot during an immigration raid, Newark, NJ, Wednesday, Nov. 19, 2025. (Photo by Anne-Marie Caruso/New Jersey Monitor) Masked, armed agents outside Ocean Seafood Depot during an immigration raid, Newark, NJ, Wednesday, Nov. 19, 2025. (Photo by Anne-Marie Caruso/New Jersey Monitor) Masked, armed agents outside Ocean Seafood Depot during an immigration raid, Newark, NJ, Wednesday, Nov. 19, 2025. (Photo by Anne-Marie Caruso/New Jersey Monitor) Masked, armed agents outside Ocean Seafood Depot during an immigration raid, Newark, NJ, Wednesday, Nov. 19, 2025. (Photo by Anne-Marie Caruso/New Jersey Monitor) Masked, armed agents outside Ocean Seafood Depot during an immigration raid, Newark, NJ, Wednesday, Nov. 19, 2025. (Photo by Anne-Marie Caruso/New Jersey Monitor) A worker shows off his red wristband outside Ocean Seafood Depot during an immigration raid, Newark, NJ, Wednesday, Nov. 19, 2025. (Photo by Anne-Marie Caruso/New Jersey Monitor) Masked, armed agents outside Ocean Seafood Depot during an immigration raid, Newark, NJ, Wednesday, Nov. 19, 2025. (Photo by Anne-Marie Caruso/New Jersey Monitor) FBI agents outside Ocean Seafood Depot during an immigration raid, Newark, NJ, Wednesday, Nov. 19, 2025. (Photo by Anne-Marie Caruso/New Jersey Monitor) Workers return to Ocean Seafood Depot after an immigration raid, Newark, NJ, Wednesday, Nov. 19, 2025. (Photo by Anne-Marie Caruso/New Jersey Monitor) A masked, armed agent outside Ocean Seafood Depot during an immigration raid, Newark, NJ, Wednesday, Nov. 19, 2025. (Photo by Anne-Marie Caruso/New Jersey Monitor) X Immigration agents conduct second raid on Newark seafood market by Sophie Nieto-Munoz, New Jersey Monitor November 19, 2025 Immigration agents conduct second raid on Newark seafood market by Sophie Nieto-Munoz, New Jersey Monitor November 19, 2025 NEWARK — Immigration enforcement and federal officials surrounded a seafood market in Newark Wednesday and detained workers in the second raid conducted at the warehouse this year. It’s unknown how many Ocean Seafood Depot workers were detained during the raid that started around 8 a.m. at the market on the corner of Adams and Delancey Streets. A U.S. Deparartment of Homeland Security spokesperson said it arrested 13 people. Advocates who conduct rapid responses to raids across the state said they are starting to hear from family members who are looking for their loved ones. “We’re trying to confirm how many workers, if they have a case — I think everybody’s going to be checking in with their folks,” said Li Adorno of Movimiento Cosecha. “We’re going to start to piece the answers together.” About 40 masked agents from different federal agencies — some wearing tactical gear and holding rifles — shut down the block of Adams Street to conduct the raid. Several workers were pulled out of the depot and given red wristbands to denote they were not detained. Jenny Garcia, a longtime immigration activist who responded to the raid Wednesday morning, said she spoke to people who said they were zip tied before being asked about their immigration status by Homeland Security Investigation and Federal Bureau of Investigations officials. “We’re seeing this pattern of this dehumanizing marking on who is allowed to leave the raid and who is going to be taken,” she said. About 12:30 p.m. the last agents pulled away in white vans and black SUVs as activists gathered on the sidewalk yelled at them to leave. Christine Cuttita, a spokeswoman for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said Homeland Security agents “executed a court-authorized search warrant as part of an active criminal investigation involving labor operations at Ocean Seafood.” She declined to comment further, citing an ongoing investigation. Federal officials had a warrant to conduct the Wednesday raid, unlike the first enforcement episode in January. During that raid in the first few days of President Donald Trump’s second term, several people, including a U.S. military veteran, were detained. Since then, immigration officials have been actively conducting raids across the state. Twenty-nine people were arrested during an August raid in Edison, and, two weeks ago, enforcement officials arrested 46 workers at an Avenel warehouse. Several of those detainees are still being held at Delaney Hall, a federal immigration jail in Newark. Workers waiting outside the market declined to speak with reporters Wednesday. The scene was tense between activists and some workers who said they voted for Trump and supported ICE raids at their workplace. One woman, who said her friend was taken, cried on the sidewalk as she hugged friends. Adorno noted there was “a lot more ICE presence this time around.” And he added that, this being the second raid at the seafood depot, some people are aware of the risk, but immigrant workers without legal status may still be taking jobs here. “If you may run the risk of being detained, you’re going to try to avoid any place where a raid has happened,” he said. “But the reality is that people are struggling. People need to work.” Newark Mayor Ras Baraka, a staunch advocate for immigrants who was arrested and charged with trespassing at Delaney Hall earlier this year, did not immediately respond for comment. His charges were later dropped. Rep. LaMonica McIver, who is facing trial over alleged assault during the scuffle outside the jail during Baraka’s arrest, said the Trump administration is “using fear as a tool.” “They have been doing so since Jan. 23 when they raided this same Newark market. We owe it to our neighbors to stand up for them,” she said on social media. “That’s exactly what I’ll keep doing.” Masked, armed agents outside Ocean Seafood Depot during an immigration raid, Newark, NJ, Wednesday, Nov. 19, 2025. (Photo by Anne-Marie Caruso/New Jersey Monitor) Masked, armed agents outside Ocean Seafood Depot during an immigration raid, Newark, NJ, Wednesday, Nov. 19, 2025. (Photo by Anne-Marie Caruso/New Jersey Monitor) Masked, armed agents outside Ocean Seafood Depot during an immigration raid, Newark, NJ, Wednesday, Nov. 19, 2025. (Photo by Anne-Marie Caruso/New Jersey Monitor) Masked, armed agents outside Ocean Seafood Depot during an immigration raid, Newark, NJ, Wednesday, Nov. 19, 2025. (Photo by Anne-Marie Caruso/New Jersey Monitor) Masked, armed agents outside Ocean Seafood Depot during an immigration raid, Newark, NJ, Wednesday, Nov. 19, 2025. (Photo by Anne-Marie Caruso/New Jersey Monitor) A worker shows off his red wristband outside Ocean Seafood Depot during an immigration raid, Newark, NJ, Wednesday, Nov. 19, 2025. (Photo by Anne-Marie Caruso/New Jersey Monitor) Masked, armed agents outside Ocean Seafood Depot during an immigration raid, Newark, NJ, Wednesday, Nov. 19, 2025. (Photo by Anne-Marie Caruso/New Jersey Monitor) FBI agents outside Ocean Seafood Depot during an immigration raid, Newark, NJ, Wednesday, Nov. 19, 2025. (Photo by Anne-Marie Caruso/New Jersey Monitor) Workers return to Ocean Seafood Depot after an immigration raid, Newark, NJ, Wednesday, Nov. 19, 2025. (Photo by Anne-Marie Caruso/New Jersey Monitor) A masked, armed agent outside Ocean Seafood Depot during an immigration raid, Newark, NJ, Wednesday, Nov. 19, 2025. (Photo by Anne-Marie Caruso/New Jersey Monitor) { "@context": "http://schema.org", "@type" : "ImageGallery", "id" : "https://newjerseymonitor.com/2025/11/19/immigration-agents-conduct-second-raid-on-newark-seafood-market/", "url" : "https://newjerseymonitor.com/2025/11/19/immigration-agents-conduct-second-raid-on-newark-seafood-market/" } New Jersey Monitor is part of States Newsroom, a nonprofit news network supported by grants and a coalition of donors as a 501c(3) public charity. New Jersey Monitor maintains editorial independence. Contact Editor Terrence T. McDonald for questions: info@newjerseymonitor.com . View Republishing Guidelines Copy to clipboard 1 Republish Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. AP and Getty images may not be republished. Please see our republishing guidelines for use of any other photos and graphics. Sophie Nieto-Munoz Sophie Nieto-Muñoz, a New Jersey native and former Trenton statehouse reporter for NJ.com, shined a spotlight on the state’s crumbling unemployment system and won several awards for investigative reporting from the New Jersey Press Association. She was a finalist for the Livingston Award for Young Journalists for her report on PetSmart's grooming practices, which was also recognized by the New York Press Club. Sophie speaks Spanish and is proud to connect to the Latinx community through her reporting. You can reach her at [email&#160;protected] . New Jersey Monitor is part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. MORE FROM AUTHOR More from our Newsroom Democrat running for NJ governor wants to ban ICE agents from wearing masks by Sophie Nieto-Munoz October 21, 2025 New videos capture tense moments surrounding arrest of Newark mayor by Sophie Nieto-Munoz October 3, 2025 Where NJ&#8217;s governor hopefuls stand on allowing cops to aid immigration agents by Sophie Nieto-Munoz September 22, 2025 A Watchdog for the Garden State Democracy Toolkit // Register to vote | Find your polling place | Find your legislator | Contact your U.S. Representative | Contact your U.S. Senator DEMOCRACY TOOLKIT Register to vote Find your polling place Find your legislator Contact your U.S. Representative Contact your U.S. Senator &copy; New Jersey Monitor, 2025 v1.97.5 ABOUT US New Jersey Monitor provides fair and tough reporting on the issues affecting New Jersey, from political corruption to education to criminal and social justice. We strive to hold powerful people accountable and explain how their actions affect New Jerseyans from Montague to Cape May. New Jersey Monitor, PO Box 6843, Lawrenceville, NJ 08648 We’re part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. DEIJ Policy | Ethics Policy | Privacy Policy Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. (See full republishing guidelines .) DEIJ Policy | Ethics Policy | Privacy Policy &copy; New Jersey Monitor, 2025 v1.97.5 States Newsroom Fair. Fearless. Free.