Title: ICE ramps up attacks on immigrant communities in Washington
Authors: Guy Oron
Published: 2025-04-09 00:00:00

Aggressive immigration enforcement by the new Donald Trump administration has begun in Washington state, with migrants subjected to increasing raids and detention at the hands of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE).

The enforcement actions are a direct threat to the more than 300,000 immigrants living without regularized documentation in Washington. The crackdown also challenges the state’s sanctuary status, which forbids local and state police departments from cooperating with ICE and Customs and Border Patrol (CBP).

Protesters outside the Northwest Detention Center accused Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and GEO Group, which runs NWDC, of treating detained migrants poorly, March 29. Photo courtesy of Saiyare Refaei.

Detaining green card holder

On Feb. 28, immigration authorities detained 64-year-old Lewelyn Dixon, a University of Washington lab technician, as she returned from the Philippines through SeaTac International Airport. Dixon was later transferred to the Northwest ICE Processing Center, commonly known as the Northwest Detention Center (NWDC), in Tacoma.

A green card holder who has lived in the U.S. for more than 50 years, Dixon is legally allowed to live and work in the country indefinitely and receive public welfare benefits. While Dixon could have applied for naturalization, she chose to keep her Philippine citizenship in order to maintain her family’s property in the country. According to the Seattle Times, Dixon’s family believes that ICE may have detained her for a criminal conviction in 2001.

Under federal law, only an immigration judge can revoke a green card and only for a limited number of reasons, such as committing fraud or certain felonies or being involved in terrorism or espionage.

In an April 3 press release by the Filipino immigrant solidarity group Tanggol Migrante Network, the group claimed Dixon was facing harsh conditions at NWDC, such as being served uncooked food, and has not received support from the Philippine government. The group also said Dixon could be detained until her court hearing in July.

Protesters denounced the recent increase in immigration enforcement by the new Trump administration. Photo courtesy of Saiyare Refaei.

Targeting a labor organizer

On the morning of March 25, Alfredo “Lelo” Juarez was driving his wife to work in Skagit County when ICE agents stopped his car. After Juarez asked them if they had a warrant, the officers smashed his car window and forcibly apprehended and detained him.

Juarez was detained at an ICE facility in Ferndale before being transferred to NWDC. According to the news site Truthout, the 25-year-old had helped found Familias Unidas por la Justicia (FUJ), a union of more than 300 farmworkers and their families in Skagit County. Juarez, like many others in the union, is a part of the Indigenous Mixtec community of Mexico.

Edgar Franks, FUJ’s political director, told Truthout that he thought Juarez was specifically singled out due to his influential role as a labor activist and organizer. Fluent in English, Spanish and Mixtec, Juarez helped bridge language barriers for his fellow union members.

“We believe his detention is politically motivated because of his organizing in the farmworker and immigrant community,” Franks said. “We believe he was targeted. The way that ICE detained him was meant to intimidate. They hardly gave him any chance to defend himself or explain. He wasn’t resisting, and he just asked to see the warrant. They asked to see his ID, and right when he was reaching for it, they broke his car window. The ICE agents escalated really fast. From what we heard, it was less than a minute from the time he was pulled over to him being in handcuffs.”

Carrying out raids

Following the two high-profile detentions, which made significant local and national headlines, ICE has continued to step up its activity. Shortly after 8 a.m. on April 2, around 50 masked immigration agents carried out a mass raid at Mt. Baker Roofing in Bellingham. ICE detained 37 employees during the raid, then took them away in unmarked vans.

The April 2 event marked the largest raid by ICE in Washington state so far under the second Trump administration. In a statement shared by the Bellingham Herald, ICE said it was investigating Mt. Baker Roofing for hiring undocumented workers, which is illegal under federal law.

Cascadia Daily News reported that, in 2023, workers at the company went on strike in protest over a lack of bathrooms, breaks and water available on the job.

Seven U.S. Congressional Representatives signed a letter to Secretary of Homeland Security Kristi Noem demanding to know what occurred during the raid and the current whereabouts and circumstances of the detained workers, which has not been made public as of press time.

Lewelyn Dixon and Alfredo “Lelo” Juarez are two prominent Washington residents who were recently detained by ICE. Protesters called for their release. Photo courtesy of Saiyare Refaei.

Resisting federal immigration authorities

In response to the ramp up of immigration enforcement activities, community members have rallied in defence of immigrants and their rights.

The same day Juarez was detained, about 100 people protested outside the ICE facility in Ferndale. On March 29, several hundred people joined a protest outside NWDC calling for the release of Dixon and Juarez, as well as others detained at the facility. Around 1,000 people protested in SeaTac outside the Federal Detention Center on April 5 as part of a larger nationwide mobilization against the Trump administration and its policies.

In addition to protests, Washington’s Attorney General Office (AGO) and several local nonprofits like the Northwest Immigrant Rights Project have also pursued litigation, filing lawsuits against Trump’s executive orders that attack birthright citizenship, abrogate detained immigrants’ rights and rescind temporary protected status for some asylum seekers. The AGO has also sued the Adams County Sheriff’s Office for disobeying Washington’s prohibition on collaboration by local authorities with ICE and CBP.

With the Trump administration escalating xenophobic rhetoric and policies, it appears that ICE’s attacks on immigrants in Washington will likely continue — and so will the protests against them.

Guy Oron was the staff reporter for Real Change from 2022 to 2025. He handled coverage of weekly and investigative news stories. You can continue to find them on X @GuyOron, Bluesky guyoron.net and Gossip Guy.

Read more of the April 9–15, 2025 issue.