Title: Ethiopian national in ICE custody passes away at Phoenix-area hospital
Published: 2025-02-07 00:00:00

PHOENIX — Serawit Gezahegn Dejene, a 45-year-old citizen of Ethiopia in the custody of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, was pronounced deceased by medical professionals at the Banner University Medical Center in Phoenix, Arizona, Jan. 29 at 1:21 p.m. A physician reported the preliminary cause of death as unknown.

Dejene had been hospitalized since Dec. 23, 2024, at the Banner Casa Grande Medical Center in Casa Grande, Arizona and later at Banner University Medical Center in Phoenix, Arizona.

Dejene entered the United States on Aug. 19, 2024, at or near Lukeville, Arizona, and was arrested by U.S. Border Patrol agents who issued him a notice and order of expedited removal. Dejene was transferred to ICE officers at Eloy Detention Center on Aug. 21, 2024.An immigration judge conducted an initial hearing Sep. 20, 2024, and granted Dejene a continuance to file an application for asylum and for withholding of removal.

Dejene informed a detention staff member on Dec 20, 2024, that he had passed out in the recreation yard the previous day and was transported, due to an elevated heart rate and fatigue, to Banner Casa Grande Medical Center for evaluation and treatment. Dejene returned to the detention center the following day with a possible lymphoma diagnosis and was given an appointment with the facility oncologist. Dejene was transported to Banner Casa Grande Medical Center on Dec. 23, 2024, and remained there until Dec. 31, 2024, when he was transferred via air ambulance to Banner University Medical Center for an increased level of care. Dejene was intubated for airway protection on Jan. 3 and pronounced deceased on Jan. 29.

Consistent with ICE protocols, the appropriate components were notified about the death, including the Department of Homeland Security Office of Inspector General and the ICE Office of Professional Responsibility. Additionally, ICE notified the next of kin.

ICE makes official notifications to Congress, nongovernmental organization stakeholders, and the media upon an official report of a detained illegal alien death and posts a news release with relevant details on the public website within two business days, per agency policy. This information may be accessed in the ICE.gov Newsroom. Additionally, congressional requirements described in the DHS Appropriations Bill of 2018) require ICE to make public all reports regarding an in-custody death within 90 days. These reports may be accessed on the Detainee Death Reporting page.

ICE remains committed to ensuring that all those in its custody reside in safe, secure and humane environments. Comprehensive medical care is provided from the moment individuals arrive and throughout the entirety of their stay. All people in ICE custody receive medical, dental and mental health intake screening within 12 hours of arriving at each detention facility, a full health assessment within 14 days of entering ICE custody or arrival at a facility, and access to medical appointments and 24-hour emergency care. At no time during detention is a detained illegal alien denied emergent care.