North Minneapolis ICE shooting: Children hospitalized after flash bang, tear gas hits van | FOX 9 Minneapolis-St. Paul Live News Weather Sports Things to Do Contests More Watch Live Expand / Collapse search ☰ Search site News Local News National News World News Investigators Politics Consumer FOX News Sunday Weather FOX 9 Weather App Forecast School Closings Live Weather Cameras Traffic FOX Weather Sports Vikings Gophers Twins Wild Timberwolves Lynx United Aurora Morning Shayne Wells Garden Guy Recipes Money Personal Finance Business Stock Market Small Business Savings Shows FOX Shows The Jason Show FOX 9 Good Day All Day Enough Said Vikings Gameday Live The PJ Fleck Show FOX 9 Sports Now Taste Buds The Afternoon Shift The Jason Show Swag Shop The FOX 9 Store Regional News Milwaukee News - FOX 6 News Chicago News - FOX 32 Chicago Detroit News - FOX 2 Detroit About Us Contact Us Contests Personalities Jobs at FOX 9 What's On FOX Advertise FCC Public File FCC Applications Stay Connected How to stream FOX LOCAL Mobile Newsletter Facebook Instagram Twitter TikTok YouTube North Minneapolis ICE shooting: Children hospitalized after flash bang, tear gas hits van By Kilat Fitzgerald Published January 15, 2026 11:36am CST Minneapolis ICE shooting FOX 9 Share Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Reddit North Mpls ICE shooting: Parents rushed tear-gassed kids to hospital Parents of the children who were hit by tear gas and flash bangs during the civil unrest in north Minneapolis say they rushed to the hospital amid the chaos. They add that ICE agents initially blocked their path and rolled a tear gas canister under the van. The Brief A father says he was with his six children when they were hit by munitions deployed by law enforcement in response to demonstrations that turned violent in north Minneapolis on Wednesday night. The parents said three of their children went to the hospital, including a 6-month-old baby, who stopped breathing after being hit by tear gas. A large crowd clashed with law enforcement after an ICE agent shot a man in the leg, with DHS alleging he resisted arrest. MINNEAPOLIS (FOX 9) - A family was caught in clashes between protesters and law enforcement during protests in north Minneapolis, leading to three of their six children, including a 6-month-old baby, being hospitalized. READ MORE: Minneapolis ICE shooting: Agent shoots immigrant, officer also hurt Children hurt in north Minneapolis protest Minneapolis ICE shooting: What we know so far A man from Venezuela was shot by ICE in north Minneapolis Wednesday night after federal officials say they attacked an officer following a traffic stop. This comes exactly a week after an ICE officer fatally shot 37-year-old Renee Good. Minneapolis Mayor Jacob Frey and Minneapolis Police Chief Brian O'Hara held a news conference Wednesday night addressing the protests and the shooting. What they're saying: The father, Shawn Jackson, told a FOX 9 reporter at the scene his children were hurt when a flash bang detonated nearby. He says the blasts were strong enough to set off his vehicle&apos;s air bags.&#xA0; &quot;Officers threw flash bangs and tear gas in my car. I got six kids in the car [&#x2026;] My 6-month-old can&apos;t even breathe. This was flipped over,&quot; Shawn said, holding up his child&#x2019;s car seat. &quot;My car filled with tear gas, I&apos;m trying to pull my kids from the car.&quot;&#xA0; His wife, Destiny Jackson, told FOX 9 their 6-month-old infant stopped breathing and lost consciousness. She then performed CPR on her baby while others poured milk on her other children in an effort to neutralize the tear gas.&#xA0; Three of children, including the baby, were then taken to the hospital by ambulance for treatment. All of the children are between 6 months old and 11 years old. Destiny says they have never gone out to protest, but this incident has given her the drive to do so.&#xA0; &quot;My kids were innocent, I was innocent, my husband was innocent, this shouldn&apos;t have happened,&quot; Destiny said. &quot;We were just trying to go home.&quot;&#xA0; North Minneapolis ICE shooting prompts protests The backstory: Protesters began gathering at the scene of the shooting just minutes after it happened. A video spread on social media is believed to show the immediate, chaotic aftermath of the shooting, with the man calling 911 to say he was shot in the leg.&#xA0; READ MORE: Minneapolis ICE shooting: Video claims to show man shot by ICE calling for help Minneapolis police say the demonstrations turned violent, with some people throwing fireworks, rocks and chunks of ice at police and federal agents.&#xA0; Officers then deployed tear gas and flash bangs in an effort to disperse the crowd, which grew into the hundreds. The Source: This story uses information gathered by FOX 9 reporters at the scene and an All Day interview with the parents of the children who were tear gassed. Minneapolis ICE shooting Minneapolis Crime and Public Safety ICE in Minnesota Your rights if ICE shows up at your door Is Minnesota cooperating with ICE? What we know ICE says it’s illegal to record agents, but is DHS policy actually unlawful? ICE head must appear in court to address why detainees were denied due process: Judge LIVE UPDATES | ICE in Minnesota: Some federal agents expected to leave as immigration leadership shifts Venezuelan family released, Justice Department officials apologize after St. Paul raid Memorial ride for Alex Pretti planned by Minneapolis bike shop Source: Border Patrol Commander Gregory Bovino demoted amid fallout from Minnesota shootings Greg Bovino to return to 'old job' in El Centro, California after Alex Pretti shooting: Reports Women charged with biting Border Patrol agents’ fingers following Alex Pretti shooting Trending Border Patrol Commander Bovino, some agents leaving Minnesota 'imminently' Venezuelan family released, Justice Department officials apologize after St. Paul raid Memorial ride for Alex Pretti planned by Minneapolis bike shop ICE head must appear in court to address why detainees were denied due process: Judge Minneapolis shooting: AG Pam Bondi gives Gov. Walz conditions for ICE to leave Minnesota Daily Newsletter All the news you need to know, every day By clicking Sign Up, I confirm that I have read and agree to the Privacy Policy and Terms of Service . More Minnesota News View More ICE head must appear in court to address why detainees were denied due process: Judge LIVE UPDATES | ICE in Minnesota: Some federal agents expected to leave as immigration leadership shifts Venezuelan family released, Justice Department officials apologize after St. Paul raid Greg Bovino to return to 'old job' in El Centro, California after Alex Pretti shooting: Reports ICE in Minnesota: Bovino, Border Patrol agents to leave Minnesota 'imminently' FOX LOCAL Watch FOX 9 for free on FOX LOCAL Watch local news, weather, and live events on Roku, Fire TV, and more — just search “FOX LOCAL” News Local News National News World News Investigators Politics Consumer FOX News Sunday Weather FOX 9 Weather App Forecast School Closings Live Weather Cameras Traffic FOX Weather Sports Vikings Gophers Twins Wild Timberwolves Lynx United Aurora Morning Shayne Wells Garden Guy Recipes Money Personal Finance Business Stock Market Small Business Savings Shows FOX Shows The Jason Show FOX 9 Good Day All Day Enough Said Vikings Gameday Live The PJ Fleck Show FOX 9 Sports Now Taste Buds The Afternoon Shift The Jason Show Swag Shop The FOX 9 Store Regional News Milwaukee News - FOX 6 News Chicago News - FOX 32 Chicago Detroit News - FOX 2 Detroit About Us Contact Us Contests Personalities Jobs at FOX 9 What's On FOX Advertise FCC Public File FCC Applications Stay Connected How to stream FOX LOCAL Mobile Newsletter Facebook Instagram Twitter TikTok YouTube facebook twitter email New Privacy Policy Updated Terms of Use Your Privacy Choices FCC Public File EEO Public File Jobs at FOX 9 Contact Us This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2026 FOX Television Stations