Title: ICE arrests in Indiana surge 80% as enforcement ramps up
Published: 2025-07-28 20:19:08

In just the past six months, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement has arrested close to 1,400 people suspected of being in Indiana illegally.

Example video title will go here for this video

Example video title will go here for this video

To stream 13 WTHR on your phone, you need the 13 WTHR app.

INDIANAPOLIS — As the Trump administration continues its enforcement efforts against illegal immigration, we're getting a clearer picture of what that looks like here Indiana.

In just the past six months, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or ICE, has arrested close to 1,400 people suspected of being in Indiana illegally.

That's an 80% increase in arrests from the same time period last year.

The data comes from the Deportation Data Project after the group submitted Freedom of Information Act requests to ICE.

That same data showed that of the just over 300 arrests made in June in Indiana this year alone, 55 of those arrested had no criminal charges or convictions.

"We've seen a sense of urgency to detain and arrest and remove people at any cost," said Wendy Catalan Ruano, who volunteers with the Indiana Undocumented Youth Alliance.

The group helps support people whose family members have been detained.

"Our governor and our politicians are saying, 'No. We're only going after people with serious crimes. We're only going after people that are committing crimes," Catalan Ruano said.

She said that's not always what she's seeing and hearing from families.

"We have seen that a lot of our community members have driver's licenses. They have work permits and they're being pulled over either way and then ICE is being notified of them driving or of them not being citizens or having legal status and they become apprehended by ICE," she said.

Last week, Gov. Mike Braun was asked about people being detained who didn't have criminal records.

"Here in our state, we're going to do what I said I'd do. The worst first and going after ones that broke the law, once they came into the country illegally and that's to the extent I'm going to be willing to help," Braun said.

In January, the governor issued an executive order directing all Hoosier law enforcement agencies to fully cooperate with ICE and sign agreements to help them with certain immigration enforcement duties.

According to data collected from ICE by the Deportation Data Project, close to 400 law enforcement agencies across the country have signed such agreements.

Four of them are in Indiana.

Hamilton, Noble and Jasper county sheriff's departments have all signed agreements with ICE, along with the Greens Fork Police Department in Wayne County.

A spokesperson for the Hamilton County Sheriff's Department said five members of their agency will go through training to be able to identify and start the paperwork for people who are already in jail on criminal charges and are suspected of being here illegally.

They'll also be trained on how to interview people about their immigration status, and start immigration detainers and removal proceedings.

A spokesperson for the Indiana State Police said they are also planning on signing an agreement to help ICE.

For Catalan Ruano, she fears with increased arrests, some of the people who will end up detained and removed will be some of the same people already on a path to legal status.

"It just contradicts this whole narrative of legal migration, legal migration," said Catalan Ruano.