What to know about immigration operations and National Guard deployments to Chicago - WBEZ Chicago
clock
CST_
Menu
Members of the Texas National Guard at the U.S. Army Reserve Training Center in far southwest suburban Elwood Tuesday.
Ashlee Rezin/Sun-Times
Public Safety
Politics
Immigration
What to know about immigration operations and National Guard deployments to Chicago
Got more questions? WBEZ and the Chicago Sun-Times provide answers.
By
Araceli Gómez-Aldana
Updated
Read this story for free.
To continue reading, sign up for The Rundown and get unlimited access to WBEZ.org.
Submit
We won't share your information with outside organizations.
Why am I seeing this?
SHARE
COPY LINK
Share
CLOSE
Email
Facebook
Twitter
Bluesky
Print
WBEZ and The Chicago Sun-Times are answering your questions about immigration operations and National Guard deployments to the Chicago area.
President Donald Trump has activated the Illinois and Texas National Guards to deploy to the Chicago area. The administration says the troops will provide protect federal property and immigration agents who are carrying out Trump’s deportation campaign here. Illinois’ governor and Chicago’s mayor have denounced the deployments as an “invasion,” and
are suing
to block them.
We’re answering your questions about the deployments and immigration enforcement in Chicago (
submit yours here
). Here are some of the questions that are coming up the most.
How is it legal for the National Guard to just march into our city?
In justifying such deployments, the Trump administration has been citing the Insurrection Act, which was intended to deal with internal rebellion.
Many legal experts say this would be a nuclear option and that allowing federal troop deployment should only be implemented in an emergency.
Trump previously deployed troops to Los Angeles against Gov. Gavin Newsom’s wishes by putting the California National Guard under federal jurisdiction. Newsom and the state of California sued, claiming federalizing the National Guard violated the 1878 Posse Comitatus Act, which generally prohibits using the military as law enforcement.
U.S. District Judge Charles Breyer in California recently accused President Donald Trump of a “serious” violation of the law, though Breyer made it clear that his 52-page order applies only to Trump’s use of the National Guard in California.
Trump’s assertion of a “constitutional exception,” which claims “the president has inherent constitutional authority to protect federal property, federal personnel and federal functions,” was also rejected by Breyer.
Chicago Police Supt. Larry Snelling last week said National Guard members cannot arrest people in Chicago unless they are partnering with federal or local law enforcement.
Another unlikely possibility would involve Trump deploying to Chicago the D.C. National Guard, which he commands. This was done when President John F. Kennedy
federalized the Alabama National Guard
in 1963 to integrate the University of Alabama.
Can the Trump administration send federal immigration agents to the Naval Station Great Lakes for immigration operations?
Yes, though White House officials said plans to expand immigration enforcement operations in Chicago and other major cities are distinct from Trump’s threats to send the National Guard to combat violent crime.
When it comes to immigration enforcement, White House officials said the current immigration push is firmly in the president’s executive authority.
Trump’s border czar, Tom Homan,
has confirmed
a ramped-up post-Labor Day deportation campaign was in the works for Chicago with a “large contingent” of agents.
Last week the Sun-Times first reported that the Defense Department has secured Naval Station Great Lakes, about 35 minutes north of Chicago, for an immigration blitz in Chicago. And immigration agents are
reportedly training there
.
Base leaders were told the facility would be providing “support” in the form of office space for a command center for the operation that will last until Sept. 30.
Naval Station Great Lakes main entrance at Sheridan Road and Farragut Avenue.
Tyler Pasciak LaRiviere/Sun-Times
If Trump does send the National Guard to Chicago, where will guard personnel be posted?
That’s unclear. In Los Angeles and Washington, D.C., where the National Guard has been formally deployed, guard personnel have been stationed around federal buildings or on federal grounds.
Legal experts say even if Trump has the authority to federalize the Illinois National Guard, he doesn’t have the authority to send them into the streets to do ordinary law enforcement.
What can local leaders do to stop a National Guard deployment here?
Can Illinois Lawmakers Block the Deployment of the National Guard to Chicago?
Listen
By
WBEZ Staff
Not much.
White House officials have said the operation in Chicago would mirror Los Angeles more than D.C. In L.A. thousands of National Guard troops and hundreds of active-duty Marines were activated to quell protests against immigration operations.
Chicago Mayor Brandon Johnson has said the city still doesn’t know exactly what the Trump administration is planning.
On Saturday, Johnson signed an executive order barring the Chicago Police Department from helping federal authorities with civil immigration enforcement or any related patrols, traffic stops and checkpoints.
The initiative attempts to have federal law enforcement personnel adhere to municipal rules, such as preventing them from hiding their identities with masks, having body cameras turned on during interactions with the public and displaying identifying information such as badges and uniforms.
In a statement, Johnson said the order aligns with the “desires of the vast majority of Chicagoans, who continue to reject a military occupation of the city.”
Illinois Attorney General Kwame Raoul claims that Trump sending National Guard members to Chicago would violate the Posse Comitatus Act.
“The Posse Comitatus Act limits the federal government’s ability to use the military for domestic law enforcement. None of the prerequisites for National Guard deployment exists here,” he told reporters earlier this month.
Can Guard members refuse to serve if they believe orders are illegal?
Retired Army General and former Illinois National Guard Adjutant General Richard Hayes, says service members are required to follow lawful orders, but those orders undergo legal review as they are issued.
“You don’t have a choice but to follow a legal order,” Hayes said. “If it’s illegal and you believe it to be legal, you can object and you’re duty- bound to do that. B, but if you’re wrong, you can be court-martialed.”
Arti Walker-Peddakotla, board chair of the veterans advocacy group About Face Veterans Against the War, said troops do have rights if they’re concerned about their orders.
“They have the right to protest, to make complaints, to redress. They can contact their Congress members and …say and communicate or petition their members of Congress,” she said. “Those communications are protected.”
Walker-Peddakotla added, “We try and remind people that many of the National Guard members being forcibly deployed come from the same communities being targeted by ICE. Many joined the military for college money, not because they wanted to. They are being used as political pawns.”
Can I take pictures or film the National Guard?
Your questions answered: Is It Legal to Record and Post Law Enforcement Officers?
Listen
By
WBEZ Staff
Yes, you can record law enforcement in a public space, as the First Amendment guarantees the right to free speech.
According to Illinois Legal Aid, people recording law enforcement should keep a reasonable distance and follow orders from officers, for example, stepping back or creating distance if asked. It is important not to directly interfere or interact with law enforcement activity.
During a
news conference in Pilsen
this week, Gov. Pritzkersaid his office wants to ensure that Chicago police officers and other local cops “are aware of what they’re doing, so they can make sure they’re not standing anywhere near those actions or assisting in those actions, but also being ready for protests that might occur.”
The governor also called on residents to record ICE activities “to keep them honest in doing the right thing.”
Send information to the Sun-Times securely
Do you have a confidential tip or information you want to share with the Sun-Times staff? Message us on the encrypted messaging app Signal
@chicagosuntimes.06
or
708-413-4625
.
Your messages will be shared only with journalists at the Sun-Times and WBEZ through a secure device. Signal message requests sent to the device are relayed to a Slack channel that reporters and editors monitor, but message contents are not shared.
How much could it cost to deploy National Guard troops here, and who would pay?
How much cost National Guard ICE who pays?
Listen
By
WBEZ Staff
Deploying National Guard troops to Chicago could cost taxpayers nearly $1.6 million per day, according to a nonpartisan federal budget research organization.
The estimate is based on 3,000 troops potentially being sent to Chicago, though no official number has been made public.
The National Priorities Project, a research group that’s part of the progressive nonprofit Institute for Policy Studies, used a figure of $530 per Guard member per day, which was the estimated cost in 2020 when National Guard members were deployed to Washington, D.C., during protests following the death of George Floyd.
Taxpayers would bear the cost, but whether that money comes from the state or the federal budget depends on how they’re deployed. If the governor ordered a deployment – which Pritzker has said he will not do – the money would come from the state. If the guards fall under the control of the president, they’d get paid with federal dollars, said Katherine Kuzminski with the Center for a New American Security.
What documents should I carry with me to prove my citizenship when I leave my home?
There have been
several
reports
of U.S. citizens getting
detained
by immigration authorities, so civil rights advocates are offering cautious advice about how to prove their citizenship.
“If people are concerned about being stopped by federal officers, they could carry a current ID,” said Ed Yohnka of the ACLU of Illinois. “Our best recommendation to people would be to carry a copy of your passport or a Real ID.”
Yohnka acknowledged his mixed feelings behind the advice. “It feels troubling… but on the other hand, we want people to be safe, and we don’t want them to be detained,” he said.
He stressed that anyone being questioned by law enforcement always has the right to remain silent. He recommends carrying copies, not originals, to prevent loss or confiscation.
Are Chicago salt trucks being used to interfere with ICE?
No. Over the weekend of Sept. 6-7, the city put the
salt trucks in Grant Park
for public safety purposes during the Taste of Chicago festival and weekend protests.
How should I talk to my kids about what’s happening with immigration enforcement in Chicago?
How should I talk to my kids about what’s happening with immigration enforcement in Chicago?
Listen
By
WBEZ Staff
It can be difficult to talk to children about the news, especially if it’s a subject like deportations.
Dr. Colleen Cicchetti, a child psychologist at Lurie Children’s Hospital, said kids often interpret the world by observing their parents’ emotions and behavior. She recommends being proactive, honest and age-appropriate when speaking with children.
“Parents need to kind of put themselves in their child’s shoes and think, ‘What are they seeing and feeling that I need to help them understand?’” Cicchetti said.
When it comes time to talk, she suggests asking children what they already know about what’s going on in the community or what’s on the news, and addressing their questions directly.
“Try to figure out what it is that your children know, and think about what they need to know.”
She emphasized that children of different ages need different levels of information.
“A child may say, ‘I’m worried we’re not going to have our neighborhood block party,’” Cicchetti said. “That might seem silly to an adult but that might be what your child is sitting up worrying about at night.”
Above all, Cicchetti said parents should not lie, but also should not instill unnecessary fear.
“We can’t say that [bad things] will never happen… but you can help them understand that those things don’t happen very often, even though it looks like they happen a lot because they’re seeing it on the news.”
Cicchetti adds that maintaining routines and modeling calm behavior can also help.
“The better thing to do is to proactively make them feel safe and secure by keeping routines going,” she said. “Then if they raise questions or if they have changes in their behavior, that’s when you need to figure out, ‘Okay, what do they know or what do they need right now?’”
MORE ON CHICAGO AND TRUMP
Trump’s rhetoric
: After President Trump took aim at Chicago with a social post last weekend claiming the city would “find out why it’s called the Department of War,” which he later downplayed, Trump again posted about Chicago this week, pointing to the city’s recent violent crime numbers while calling out Gov. JB Pritzker.
ICE in the workplace
: What if ICE comes to your workplace? Here’s what businesses and employees should know about their rights amid ongoing immigration enforcement in the area.
Can Trump send troops to Chicago?
: Legal scholars say there’s ‘no actual good reason’ to send the National Guard into Illinois.
Violent crime down
: Recent data shows homicides in Chicago are down about 50% so far this year compared to the same period in 2021.
SHARE
COPY LINK
Share
CLOSE
Email
Facebook
Twitter
Bluesky
Print
Araceli Gómez-Aldana
WBEZ
Anchor/reporter
The Latest
Movies & TV
New doc on 2008 Lane Bryant mass shooting could spur fresh leads, filmmaker hopes
Eighteen years later, the shooting that left five women dead at a women’s clothing store in Tinley Park remains unsolved.
By
Mitch Dudek
Public Safety
As mayor touts lower crime, community groups say lack of funding jeopardizes the trend
Mayor Brandon Johnson credited community groups in a South Side police district for contributing to a 53.9% decrease in homicides last year compared to 2024. But one of those group’s leaders, who recently had to lay off staff, told the mayor: “We need proper funding … [to] keep the work going.”
By
Sophie Sherry
Immigration
ICE shooting in Minneapolis echoes what feds did in Chicago
The Homeland Security response in Minnesota follows the playbook seen here.
Listen
By
Chip Mitchell
Public Safety
Mayor Brandon Johnson stresses New Year's Eve curfew, hopes to avoid another 'teen takeover'
Anyone under 18 is required to be with an adult after 10 p.m. Wednesday night while the city hosts “Dick Clark’s New Year’s Rockin’ Eve with Ryan Seacrest” along the Riverwalk.
By
Mitchell Armentrout
Immigration
After fleeing the war in Ukraine, they thought they were safe. Then came Trump’s deportation blitz.
As the war in Ukraine drags on and U.S. immigration policy shifts, many Ukrainians “are stranded,” says a Chicago attorney, and now some are being detained.
Listen
By
Anna Savchenko