Title: 'Alligator Alcatraz' detainees on hunger strike for 10th day, protesting conditions
Authors: Jamie Guirola, Nbc Miami
Published: 2025-08-01 20:45:19.044000+00:00

A hunger strike at a South Florida immigration detention center state officials have named “Alligator Alcatraz” has entered its tenth day, as detainees protest what they call inhumane and dangerous living conditions.

One of the detainees, Pedro Hernández, was hospitalized during the strike but continues to refuse food. His wife, Daimarys Hernández, said she’s terrified for his health and fears he could die in custody, or be deported back to Cuba, alone.

“My husband was in prison. We make mistakes, but we learn from them and fix things,” she told NBC6.

Pedro Hernández, who came to the U.S. from Cuba in 2006, was detained in July during a routine check-in with ICE in Miramar. He hasn’t been home since.

In a recorded phone call from inside the facility, he pleaded for help:

“We’ve all been hungry since Tuesday. I’m not going to eat another plate of food until they show us respect," Hernández said.

A Florida Highway Patrol officer looks on as protesters gather to demand the closure of the immigrant detention center known as "Alligator Alcatraz" in Ochopee, Fla., on July 22, 2025. Chandan Khanna / AFP - Getty Images file

The hunger strike has prompted outrage from his wife and community members. On Thursday night, Democratic leaders held an emergency town hall in Coconut Grove demanding reform and accountability.

“Florida has struck an unholy bargain with the Trump administration,” one speaker said. “People are not getting food, hygiene, or medical care. These conditions are substandard and cause irreparable harm.”

Meanwhile in Washington, Florida Republican Sen. Rick Scott responded to questions about the facility by expressing appreciation for the president’s immigration policies, adding only that things should be handled in a humane way.

Civil rights groups as well as environmental groups have filed lawsuits over the state-run facility in the Florida Everglades. Civil rights groups allege detainees haven't been allowed access to legal counsel, which the state denies.